I- 



Hoffman 



steal 

this 

book 



STEAL THIS BOOK 
By Abbie Hoffman 

Dedicated to Jerry Lefcourt, Lawyer and Brother 

Library of Congress number 72-1571 15 (stolen from Library of Congress) 
copyright ©1971 PIRATE EDITIONS 



TABLE OF DISCONTENTS 



INTRODUCTION 
AIDING AND ABETTING 
SURVIVE! 

1. FREE FOOD 

o Restaurants 

o Food Programs 

o Supermarkets 

o Wholesale Markets 

o Food Conspiracies 

o Cheap Chow 

2. FREE CLOTHING AND FURNITURE 

o Free Clothing 

o Sandals 

o Free Furniture 

3. FREE TRANSPORTATION 

o Hitch-Hiking 

o Freighting 

o Cars 

o Buses 

o Airlines 

o In City Travel 

4. FREE LAND 

5. FREE HOUSING 

o Communes 

o Urban Living 

o Rural Living 

o List of Communes 

6. FREE EDUCATION 

o List of Free Universities 



7. FREE MEDICAL CARE 

o Birth Control Clinics 
o Abortions 

o Diseases Treated Free 

8. FREE COMMUNICATION 

o Press Conference 

o Wall Painting 

o Use of the Flag 

o Radio 

o Free Telephones 

o Pay Phones 

9. FREE PLAY 

o Movies and Concerts 
o Records and Books 

10. FREE MONEY 

o Welfare 
o Unemployment 
o Panhandling 
o Rip-Off s 

o The International Yippie Currency Exchange 

11. FREE DOPE 

o Buying, Selling and Giving It Away 
o Growing Your Own 

12. ASSORTED FREEBIES 

o Laundry 

o Pets 

o Posters 

o Security 

o Postage 

o Maps 

o Ministry 

o Attrocities 

o Veteran's Benefits 

o Watch 

o Vacations 



o Drinks 
o Burials 

o Astrodome Pictures 
o Diploma 
o Toilets 
. FIGHT! 

1 . TELL IT ALL, BROTHERS AND SISTERS 

o Starting a Printing Workshop 

o Underground Newspapers 

o High School Papers 

o G.I. Papers 

o News Services 

o The Underground Press 

o Switchboards 

2. GUERRILLA BROADCASTING 

o Guerrilla Radio 
o Guerrilla Television 

3. DEMONSTRATIONS 

o Dress 

o Helmets 

o Gas Masks 

o Walkie-Talkies 

o Other Equipment 

4. TRASHING 

o Weapons for Street Fighting 

o Knife Fighting 

o Unarmed Defense 

o General Strategy Rep 

5. PEOPLE'S CHEMISTRY 

o Stink Bomb 

o Smoke Bomb 

o CBW 

o Molotov Cocktail 

o Sterno Bomb 

o Aerosol Bomb 

o Pipe Bombs 



o General Bomb Strategy 

6. FIRST AID FOR STREET FIGHTERS 

o What to Do 

o Medical Committees 

7. HIP-POCKET LAW 

o Legal Advice 

o Lawyer's Group 

o Join the Army of Your Choice 

o Canada, Sweden & Political Asylum 

8. STEAL NOW, PAY NEVER 

o Shoplifting 

o Techniques 

o On the Job 

o Credit Cards 

9. MONKEY WELFARE 

10. PIECE NOW 

o Handguns 

o Rifles 

o Shotguns 

o Other Weapons 

o Training 

o Gun Laws 

11. THE UNDERGROUND 

o Identification Papers 
o Communication 
. LIBERATE! 

1. FUCK NEW YORK 

2. FUCK CHICAGO 

3. FUCK LOS ANGELES 

4. FUCK SAN FRANCISCO 



INTRODUCTION 



It's perhaps fitting that I write this introduction in jail- that graduate school of 
survival. Here you learn how to use toothpaste as glue, fashion a shiv out of a 
spoon and build intricate communication networks. Here too, you learn the only 
rehabilitation possible-hatred of oppression. 

Steal This Book is, in a way, a manual of survival in the prison that is Amerika. It 
preaches jailbreak. It shows you where exactly how to place the dynamite that 
will destroy the walls. The first section-SURVIVEMays out a potential action 
program for our new Nation. The chapter headings spell out the demands for a 
free society. A community where the technology produces goods and services for 
whoever needs them, come who may. It calls on the Robin Hoods of Santa 
Barbara Forest to steal from the robber barons who own the castles of 
capitalism. It implies that the reader already is "ideologically set," in that he 
understands corporate feudalism as the only robbery worthy of being called 
"crime," for it is committed against the people as a whole. Whether the ways it 
describes to rip-off shit are legal or illegal is irrelevant. The dictionary of law is 
written by the bosses of order. Our moral dictionary says no heisting from each 
other. To steal from a brother or sister is evil. To not steal from the institutions 
that are the pillars of the Pig Empire is equally immoral. 

Community within our Nation, chaos in theirs; that is the message of SURVIVE! 

We cannot survive without learning to fight and that is the lesson in the second 
section. FIGHT! separates revolutionaries from outlaws. The purpose of part two 
is not to fuck the system, but destroy it. The weapons are carefully chosen. They 
are "home-made," in that they are designed for use in our unique electronic 
jungle. Here the uptown reviewer will find ample proof of our "violent" nature. But 
again, the dictionary of law fails us. Murder in a uniform is heroic, in a costume it 
is a crime. False advertisements win awards, forgers end up in jail. Inflated prices 
guarantee large profits while shoplifters are punished. Politicians conspire to 
create police riots and the victims are convicted in the courts. Students are 
gunned down and then indicted by suburban grand juries as the trouble-makers. 
A modern, highly mechanized army travels 9,000 miles to commit genocide 
against a small nation of great vision and then accuses its people of aggression. 
Slumlords allow rats to maim children and then complain of violence in the 
streets. Everything is topsy-turvy. If we internalize the language and imagery of 
the pigs, we will forever be fucked. Let me illustrate the point. Amerika was built 
on the slaughter of a people. That is its history. For years we watched movie 
after movie that demonstrated the white man's benevolence. Jimmy Stewart, the 
epitome of fairness, puts his arm around Cochise and tells how the Indians and 
the whites can live in peace if only both sides will be reasonable, responsible and 
rational (the three R's imperialists always teach the "natives"). "You will find good 
grazing land on the other side of the mountain," drawls the public relations man. 
"Take your people and go in peace." Cochise as well as millions of youngsters in 
the balcony of learning, were being dealt off the bottom of the deck. The Indians 
should have offed Jimmy Stewart in every picture and we should have cheered 



ourselves hoarse. Until we understand the nature of institutional violence and 
how it manipulates values and mores to maintain the power of the few, we will 
forever be imprisoned in the caves of ignorance. When we conclude that bank 
robbers rather than bankers should be the trustees of the universities, then we 
begin to think clearly. When we see the Army Mathematics Research and 
Development Center and the Bank of Amerika as cesspools of violence, filling 
the minds of our young with hatred, turning one against another, then we begin to 
think revolutionary. 

Be clever using section two; clever as a snake. Dig the spirit of the struggle. 
Don't get hung up on a sacrifice trip. Revolution is not about suicide, it is about 
life. With your fingers probe the holiness of your body and see that it was meant 
to live. Your body is just one in a mass of cuddly humanity. Become an 
internationalist and learn to respect all life. Make war on machines, and in 
particular the sterile machines of corporate death and the robots that guard them. 
The duty of a revolutionary is to make love and that means staying alive and free. 
That doesn't allow for cop-outs. Smoking dope and hanging up Che's picture is 
no more a commitment than drinking milk and collecting postage stamps. A 
revolution in consciousness is an empty high without a revolution in the 
distribution of power. We are not interested in the greening of Amerika except for 
the grass that will cover its grave. 

Section three - LIBERATE! - concerns itself with efforts to free stuff (or at least 
make it cheap) in four cities. Sort of a quick U.S. on no dollars a day. It begins to 
scratch the potential for a national effort in this area. Since we are a nation of 
gypsies, dope on how to move around and dig in anywhere is always needed. 
Together we can expand this section. It is far from complete, as is the entire 
project. Incomplete chapters on how to identify police agents, steal a car, run 
day-care centers, conduct your own trial, organize a G.I. coffee house, start a 
rock and roll band and make neat clothes, are scattered all over the floor of the 
cell. The book as it now stands was completed in the late summer of 1970. For 
three months manuscripts made the rounds of every major publisher. In all, over 
30 rejections occurred before the decision to publish the book ourselves was 
made, or rather made for us. Perhaps no other book in modern times presented 
such a dilemma. Everyone agreed the book would be a commercial success. But 
even greed had its limits, and the IRS and FBI following the manuscript with their 
little jive rap had a telling effect. Thirty "yeses" become thirty "noes" after 
"thinking it over." Liberals, who supposedly led the fight against censorship, 
talked of how the book "will end free speech." 

Finally the day we were bringing the proofs to the printer, Grove consented to act 
as distributor. To pull a total solo trip, including distribution, would have been 
neat, but such an effort would be doomed from the start. We had tried it before 
and blew it. In fact, if anyone is interested in 4,000 1969 Yippie calendars, 
they've got a deal. Even with a distributor joining the fight, the battle will only 
begin when the books come off the press. There is a saying that "Freedom of the 



press belongs to those who own one." In past eras, this was probably the case, 
but now, high speed methods of typesetting, offset printing and a host of other 
developments have made substantial reductions in printing costs. Literally 
anyone is free to print their own works. In even the most repressive society 
imaginable, you can get away with some form of private publishing. Because 
Amerika allows this, does not make it the democracy Jefferson envisioned. 
Repressive tolerance is a real phenomenon. To talk of true freedom of the press, 
we must talk of the availability of the channels of communication that are 
designed to reach the entire population, or at least that segment of the population 
that might participate in such a dialogue. Freedom of the press belongs to those 
that own the distribution system. Perhaps that has always been the case, but in a 
mass society where nearly everyone is instantaneously plugged into a variety of 
national communications systems, wide-spread dissemination of the information 
is the crux of the matter. To make the claim that the right to print your own book 
means freedom of the press is to completely misunderstand the nature of a mass 
society. It is like making the claim that anyone with a pushcart can challenge 
Safeway supermarkets, or that any child can grow up to be president. 

State legislators, librarians, PTA members, FBI agents, church-goers, and 
parents: a veritable legion of decency and order already is on the march. To get 
the book to you might be the biggest challenge we face. The next few months 
should prove really exciting. 

Obviously such a project as Steal This Book could not have been carried out 
alone. Izak Haber shared the vision from the beginning. He did months of 
valuable research and contributed many of the survival techniques. Carole 
Ramer and Gus Reichbach of the New York Law Commune guided the book 
through its many stages. Anna Kaufman Moon did almost all the photographs. 
The cartoonists who have made contributions include Ski Williamson and Gilbert 
Sheldon. Tom Forcade, of the UPS, patiently did the editing. Bert Cohen of 
Concert Hall did the book's graphic design. Amber and John Wilcox set the type. 
Anita Hoffman and Lynn Borman helped me rewrite a number of sections. There 
are others who participated in the testing of many of the techniques 
demonstrated in the following pages and for obvious reasons have to remain 
anonymous. There were perhaps over 50 brothers and sisters who played 
particularly vital roles in the grand conspiracy. Some of the many others are 
listed on the following page. We hope to keep the information up to date. If you 
have comments, law suits, suggestions or death threats, please send them to: 
DearAbbie P.O. Box 213, Cooper Station, New York, NY 10003. Many of the tips 
might not work in your area, some might be obsolete by the time you get to try 
them out, and many addresses and phone numbers might be changed. If the 
reader becomes a participating researcher then we will have achieved our 
purpose. 

Watch for a special edition called Steal This White House, complete with 
blueprints of underground passages, methods of jamming the communications 



network and a detailed map of the celebrated room where according to Tricia 
Nixon, "Daddy loves to listen to Mantovanni records, turn up the air conditioner 
full blast, sit by the fireplace, gaze out the window to the Washington Monument 
and meditate on those difficult problems that face all the peoples of this world." 

December, 1970 
Cook County Jail 
Chicago 

"FREE SPEECH IS THE RIGHT TO SHOUT 
'THEATER' IN A CROWDED FIRE." 



- A YIPPIE PROVERB 



AIDING AND ABETTING 

Tim Leary, Tom, Geronimo, Pearl Paperhanger, Sonny, Pat Solomon, Allan 
Katzman, Jacob Kohn, Nguyen Van Troi, Susan, Marty, Andy, Ami, Marshall 
Bloom, Viva, Ben, Oanh, Robin Palmer, Mom and Dad, Janie Fonda, Jerry, 
Denis, LNS, Bernadine Dohrn, a wall in Harvard Square, Nancy, an anonymous 
stewardess, Shirley Wonderful, Roz, Gumbo, Janis, Jimi, Dylan Liberation Front, 
Jeannie, God Slick, John, David, Rusty, Barney, Richard, Denny, Ron Cobb, the 
entire Viet Cong, Sam Shephard, Ma Bell, Eric, David, Joe, Kim Agnew, the 
Partridge Family, Carol, Alan Ginsburg, Woman's Lib, Julius Lester, Lenny 
Bruce, Hack, Billy, Paul, Willy, Colleen, Sid, Johnny Appleseed, the Rat, Craig, 
Che, Willie Sutton, Wanda, EVO, Jeff, Crazy Horse, Huey, Casey, Bobby, Alice, 
Mao, Rip, Ed, Bob, Gay Liberation Front, WPAX, Frank Dudock, Manny, Mungo, 
Lottie, Rosemary, Marshall, Rennie, Judy, Jennifer, Mr. Martin, Keith, Madame 
Binh, Mike, Eleanor, Dr. Spock, Afeni, Candice, the Tupamaros, Berkeley Tribe, 
Gilbert Sheldon, Stanley Kubrick, Sam, Anna, Skip Williamson, UPS, Andy 
Stapp, the Yippies, Richard Brautigan, Jano, Carlos Marighella, the Weathermen, 
Julius Jennings Hoffman, Quentin, the inmates of TIER A-l Cook County Jail, 
Houdini, 37, Rosa Luxemberg, the Kent 25, the Chicago 15, the New York 21, 
the Motor City 3, the Indianapolis 500, Jack, Joan, Malcolm X, Mayakovsky, 
Dotson, R. Crumb, Daniel Clyne, Justin, The FBI Top 10 (now 16), Unis, Dana, 
Jim Morrison, Brian, John, Gus, Ruth, Nancy Unger, Pun, Jomo, Peter, Mark 
Rudd, Billy Kunstler, Genie, Ken, the Law Commune, Paula, Robby, Terry, 
Dianna, Angela, Ted, Phil, Jefferson Airplane, Len, Tricky Prickers, the 
Berrigans, Stu, Rayanne, J.B., Jonathan Jackson, the Armstrong Brothers, 
Homer, Sharon, Fred Hampton, Jean Jacques Lebel, A. H. Maslow, Hanoi Rose, 
Sylvia, Fellini, Amaru, Ann Fettamen, Artaud, Bert, Merrill, Lynne, and last but 
not least to Spiro what's his name who provided the incentive. 



SURVIVE! 




SURUIUE! 



FREE FOOD 
RESTAURANTS 

In a country such as Amerika, there is bound to be a hell-of-a-lot food lying 
around just waiting to be ripped off. If you want to live high off the hog without 



having to do the dishes, restaurants are easy pickings. In general, many of these 
targets are easier marks if you are wearing the correct uniform. You should 
always have one suit or fashionable dress outfit hanging in the closet for the 
proper heists. Specialized uniforms, such as nun and priest garb, can be most 
helpful. Check out your local uniform store for a wide range of clothes that will get 
you in, and especially out, of all kinds of stores. Every movement organization 
should have a prop and costume department. 

In every major city there are usually bars that cater to the New Generation type 
riff-raff, trying to hustle their way up the escalator of Big Business. Many of these 
bars have a buffet or hors-d'oeuvres served free as a come-on to drink more 
mindless booze. Take a half-empty glass from a table and use it as a prop to 
ward off the anxious waitress. Walk around sampling the free food until you've 
had enough. Often, there are five or six such bars in close proximity, so moving 
around can produce a delightful "street smorgasbord." Dinner usually begins at 
5:00 PM. 

If you are really hungry, you can go into a self-service cafeteria and finish the 
meal of someone who left a lot on the plate. Self-service restaurants are usually 
good places to cop things like mustard, ketchup, salt, sugar, toilet paper, 
silverware and cups for home use. Bring an empty school bag and load up after 
you've cased the joint. Also, if you can stomach the food, you can use slugs at 
the automat. Finishing leftovers can be worked in even the fanciest of 
restaurants. When you are seated at a place where the dishes still remain, chow- 
down real quick. Then after the waitress hands you the menu, say you have to 
meet someone outside first, and leave. 

There are still some places where you can get all you can eat for a fixed price. 
The best of these places are in Las Vegas. Sew a plastic bag onto your tee-shirt 
or belt and wear a loose-fitting jacket or coat to cover any noticeable bulge. Fried 
chicken is the best and the easiest to pocket, or should we say bag. Another trick 
is to pour your second free cup of hot coffee into the plastic bag sewed inside 
your pocket and take it with you. 

At large take-out stands you can say you or your brother just picked up an order 
of fifteen hamburgers or a bucket of chicken, and got shorted. We have never 
seen or heard of anybody getting turned down using this method. If you want to 
get into a grand food heist from take-out stands, you can work the following nervy 
bit: from a pay phone, place an order from a large delivery restaurant. Have the 
order sent to a nearby apartment house. Wait a few minutes in the booth after 
you've hung up, as they sometimes call back to confirm the order. When the 
delivery man goes into the apartment house to deliver the order, you can swipe 
the remaining orders that are still in his truck. 

In fancy sit-down restaurants, you can order a large meal and halfway through 
the main course, take a little dead cockroach or a piece of glass out of your 



pocket and place it deftly on the plate. Jump up astonished and summon the 
headwaiter. "Never have I been so insulted. I could have been poisoned" you 
scream slapping down the napkin. You can refuse to pay and leave, or let the 
waiter talk you into having a brand new meal on the house for this terrible 
inconvenience. 

In restaurants where you pay at the door just before leaving, there are a number 
of free-loading tricks that can be utilized. After you've eaten a full meal and 
gotten the check, go into the restroom. When you come out go to the counter or 
another section of the restaurant and order coffee and pie. Now you have two 
bills. Simply pay the cheaper one when you leave the place. This can be worked 
with a friend in the following way. Sit next to each other at the counter. He should 
order a big meal and you a cup of coffee. Pretend you don't know each other. 
When he leaves, he takes your check and leaves the one for the large meal on 
the counter. After he has paid the cashier and left the restaurant, you pick up the 
large check, and then go into the astonishment routine, complaining that 
somebody took the wrong check. You end up only paying for your coffee. Later, 
meet your partner and reverse the roles in another place. 

In all these methods, you should leave a good tip for the waiter or waitress, 
especially with the roach-in-the-plate gambit. You should try to avoid getting the 
employees in trouble or screwing them out of a tip. 

One fantastic method of not only getting free food but getting the best available is 
the following technique that can be used in metropolitan areas. Look in a large 
magazine shop for gourmet digests and tourist manuals. Swipe one or two and 
copy down a good name from the masthead inside the cover. Making up a name 
can also work. Next invest $5.00 to print business cards with the name of the 
magazine and the new "associate editor." Call or simply drop into a fancy 
restaurant, show a copy of the magazine and present the manager with your 
card. They will insist that the meal be on the house. 

Great places to get fantastic meals are weddings, bar-mitzvahs, testimonials and 
the like. The newspaper society sections have lists of weddings and locations. If 
your city has a large Jewish population, subscribe to the newspaper that services 
the Jewish community. There are extensive lists in these papers of family 
occasions where tons of good food is served. Show up at the back of the 
synagogue a few hours after the affair has begun with a story of how you'd like to 
bring some leftovers of "good Jewish food" back to your fraternity or sorority. If 
you want to get the food served to you out front, you naturally have to disguise 
yourself to look straight. Remarks such as, "I'm Marvin's cousin," or learning the 
bride's name, "Gee, Dorothy looks marvelous" are great. Lines like "Betty doesn't 
look pregnant" are frowned upon. A man and woman team can work this free- 
load much better than a single person as they can chatter back and forth while 
stuffing themselves. 



If you're really into a classy free meal, and you are in a city with a large harbor, 
check out the passenger ship section in the back pages of the newspaper. There 
you find the schedule of departures for ocean cruises. Most trips (these kind, 
anyway) begin with a fantastic bon voyage party on board ship. Just walk on a 
few hours before departure time and start swinging. Champagne, caviar, lobster, 
shrimp and more, all as free as the open seas. If you get really bombed and miss 
getting off, you can also wiggle a ride across the ocean. You get sent back as 
soon as you hit the other side, but it's a free ocean cruise. You should have a 
pretty good story ready to go, or you might end up rowing in the galley. 

Another possibility for getting a free meal is to go down to the docks and get 
friendly with a sailor. He can often invite you for dinner on board ship. Foreign 
sailors are more than glad to meet friends and you can get great foreign dinners 
this way. 

FOOD PROGRAMS 

In Amerika, there is a national food stamp program that unfortunately is 
controlled by the states. Many states, for racist reasons, do not want to make it 
too available or to publicize the fact that it even exists. It is a much better deal 
than the food program connected with welfare, because you can use the stamps 
to buy any kind of food. The only items excluded are tobacco products and 
alcoholic beverages. In general, you can qualify if you earn less than $165 per 
month; the less you earn, the more stamps you can receive. There is minimal 
hassle involved once you get by the first hurdle. Show up at your local food 
stamp office, which can be found by calling the Welfare Department in our city. 
Make an appointment to see a representative for your area. They will tell you to 
bring all sorts of receipts, but the only thing you need are a few rent stubs for the 
most recent months. An array of various receipt books is a nice supplement to 
one's prop room. If the receipts are for a high rent, tell them you rent a room from 
a group of people and eat separately. They really only want to prove that you 
have cooking facilities. Once you get the stamps, you can pick them up regularly. 
Some states even mail them to your pad. You can get up to a hundred dollars 
worth of free purchases a month per person in the most liberal states. 

Large amounts of highly nutritional food can be gotten for as little as three cents 
per meal from a non-profit organization called Multi-Purpose Food for Millions 
Foundation, Inc., 1800 Olympic Ave., Santa Monica, California. Write and they 
will send you details. 

SUPERMARKETS 

Talking about food in Amerika means talking about supermarkets-mammoth 
neon lighted streets of food packaged to hoodwink the consumers. Many a 
Yippie can be found in the aisles, stuffing his pockets with assorted delicacies. 



We have been shoplifting from supermarkets on a regular basis without raising 
the slightest suspicion, ever since they began. 

We are not alone, and the fact that so much stealing goes on and the 
supermarkets still bring in huge profits shows exactly how much overcharging 
has occurred in the first place. Supermarkets, like other businesses, refer to 
shoplifting as "inventory shrinkage." It's as if we thieves were helping Big 
Business reduce weight. So let's view our efforts as methods designed to trim the 
economy and push forward with a positive attitude. 




i^fs see now, one mWl* finger, s teaspoon of snot 
and 



Women should never go shopping without a large handbag. In those crowded 
aisles, especially the ones with piles of cases, all sorts of goodies can be 
transferred from shopping cart to handbag. A drop bag can be sewn inside a 
trench coat, for more efficient thievery. Don't worry about the mirrors; attendants 
never look at them. Become a discriminating shopper and don't stuff any of the 
cheap shit in your pockets. 

Small bottles and jars often have the same size cap as the larger expensive 
sizes. If they have the price stamped on the cap, switch caps, getting the larger 
size for the cheaper price. You can empty a pound box of margarine and fill it 
with sticks of butter. Small narrow items can be hidden in the middle of rolls of 
toilet paper. Larger supermarkets sell records. You can sneak two good LP's into 
one of those large frozen pizza boxes. In the produce department, there are bags 
for fruit and vegetables. Slip a few steaks or some lamb chops into the bottom of 
a large brown bag and pile some potatoes on top. Have a little man in the white 
coat weigh the bag, staple it and mark the price. With a black crayon you can 
mark your own prices, or bring your own adhesive price tags. 

It's best to work shoplifting in the supermarket with a partner who can act as look- 
out and shield you from the eyes of nosy employees, shoppers and other crooks 
trying to pick up some pointers. Work out a prearranged set of signals with your 
partner. Diversions, like knocking over displays, getting into fist fights with the 
manager, breaking plate glass windows and such are effective and even if you 
don't get anything they're fun. Haven't you always wanted to knock over those 
carefully constructed nine-foot pyramids of garbage? 

You can walk into a supermarket, get a few items from the shelves, and walk 
around eating food in the aisles. Pick up some cherries and eat them. Have a 
spoon in your pocket and open some yogurt. Open a pickle or olive jar. Get some 
sliced meat or cheese from the delicatessen counter and eat it up, making sure 
to ditch the wrapper. The cart full of items, used as a decoy, can just be left in an 
aisle before you leave the store. 

Case the joint before pulling a big rip-off. Know the least crowded hours, learn 
the best aisles to be busy in, and check out the store's security system. Once you 
get into shoplifting in supermarkets, you'll really dig it. You'll be surprised to learn 
that the food tastes better. 

Large scale thievery can best be carried out with the help of an employee. Two 
ways we know of work best. A woman can get a job as a cashier and ring up a 
small bill as her brothers and sisters bring home tons of stuff. 

The method for men involves getting a job loading and unloading trucks in the 
receiving department. Some accomplices dressed right can just pull in and, with 
your help, load up on a few cases. Infiltrating an employee into a store is 
probably the best way to steal. Cashiers, sales clerks, shippers, and the like are 



readily available jobs with such high turnover and low pay that little checking on 
your background goes on. Also, you can learn what you have to do in a few days. 
The rest of the week, you can work out ways to clean out the store. After a month 
or so of action you might want to move on to another store before things get 
heavy. We know one woman working as a cashier who swiped over $500 worth 
of food a week. She had to leave after a month because her boss thought she 
was such an efficient cashier that he insisted on promoting her to a job that didn't 
have as many fringe benefits for her and her friends. 

Large chain stores like Safeway throw away day-old vegetables, the outer leaves 
of lettuce, celery and the like. This stuff is usually found in crates outside the 
back of the building. Tell them you're working with animals at the college labs, or 
that you raise guinea pigs. They might even get into saving them for you, but if 
they don't just show up before the garbage is collected, (generally early in the 
morning), and they'll let you cart away what you want. 

Dented cans and fruit can often be gotten free, but certainly at a reduced rate. 
They are still as good as the undamaged ones. So be sure to dent all your cans 
before you go to the cashier. 

Look up catering services and businesses that service factories and office 
buildings with ready-made sandwiches. Showing up at these places at the right 
times (catering services on late Sunday night and sandwich dealers at 5:00 PM 
on weekdays) will produce loads of good food. Legally, they have to dispose of 
the food that's left over. They would be more than happy to give it to you if you 
spin a good story. 

Butchers can be hustled for meat scraps with meat scraps with a "for my dog" 
story, and bakeries can be asked for day-old rolls and bread. 

WHOLESALE MARKETS 

Large cities all have a wholesale fruit and vegetable area where often the 
workers will give you tons of free food just for the asking. Get a good story 
together. Get some church stationery and type a letter introducing yourself "to 
whom it may concern," or better still, wear some clerical garb. Orchards also 
make good pickings just after the harvest has been completed. 

Factories often will give you a case or two of free merchandise for a "charitable" 
reason. Make some calls around town and then go pick up the stuff at the end of 
the week. A great idea is to get a good list of a few hundred large corporations 
around the country by looking up their addresses at the library. Poor's Register of 
Companies, Directors and Executives has the most complete list. Send them all 
letters complaining about how the last box of cereal was only half full, or you 
found a dead fly in the can of peaches. They often will send you an ample supply 
of items just to keep you from complaining to your friends or worse, taking them 



to court. Often you can get stuff sent to you by just telling them how good their 
product is compared to the trash you see nowadays. You know the type of letter - 
"Rice Krispies have had a fantastic effect on my sexual prowess," or "Your frozen 
asparagus has given a whole new meaning to my life." In general though, the 
nasties get the best results. 

Slaughterhouses usually have meat they will give away. They are anxious to give 
to church children's programs and things like that. In most states, there is a law 
that if the slab of meat touches the ground, they have to throw it away. Drop 
around meat houses late in the day and trip a few trucks. 

Fishermen always have hundreds of pounds offish that have to be thrown out. 
You can have as much as you can cart away, generally just for the asking. Boats 
come in late in the afternoon and they'll give you some of the catch, or you can 
go to the markets early in the morning when the fishing is best. 

These methods of getting food in large quantities can only be appreciated by 
those who have tried it. You will be totally baffled by the unbelievable quantities 
of food that will be laid on you and with the ease of panhandling. 

Investing in a freezer will allow you to bi-weekly or even monthly trips to the 
wholesale markets and you'll get the freshest foods to boot. Nothing can beat 
getting it wholesale for free. Or is it free for wholesale? In any event, "bon 
appetit." 

FOOD CONSPIRACIES 

Forming a food cooperative is one of the best ways to promote solidarity and get 
every kind of food you need to survive real cheap. It also provides a ready-made 
bridge for developing alliances with blacks, Puerto Ricans, chicanos and other 
groups fighting our common oppressor on a community level. 

Call a meeting of about 20 communes, collectives or community organizations. 
Set up the ground rules. There should be a hard-core of really good hustlers that 
serve as the shopping or hunting party and another group of people who have 
their heads together enough to keep records and run the central distribution 
center. Two or three in each group should do it. They can get their food free for 
the effort. Another method is to rotate the activity among all members of the 
conspiracy. The method you choose depends upon your politics and whether you 
favor a division of labor or using the food conspiracy as a training for collective 
living. Probably a blend of the two is best, but you'll have to hassle that out for 
yourself. The next thing to agree upon is how the operation and all the shit you 
get will be paid for. This is dependent on a number of variables, so we'll map out 
one scheme and you can modify it to suit your particular situation. Each member 
of every commune could be assessed a fee for joining. You want to get together 
about $2,000, so at 200 members, this is ten bucks a piece. After the joining fee, 



each person or group has to pay only for the low budget food they order, but 
some loot is needed to get things rolling. The money goes to getting a store front 
or garage, a cheap truck, some scales, freezers, bags, shelving, chopping 
blocks, slicer and whatever else you need. You can get great deals by looking in 
the classified ads of the local overground newspaper and checking for 
restaurants or markets going out of business. Remember the idea of a 
conspiracy is to get tons of stuff at real low prices or free into a store front, and 
then break it down into smaller units for each group and eventually each 
member. The freezers allow you to store perishables for a longer time. 

The hunting party should be well acquainted with how to rip off shit totally free 
and where all the best deals are to be found. They should know what food is 
seasonal and about nutritional diets. There is a lot to learn, such as where to get 
raw grains in 100 pounds lots and how to cut up a side of beef. A good idea is to 
get a diet freak to give weekly talks in the store front. There can also be cooking 
lessons taught, especially to men, so women can get out of the kitchen. 

Organizing a community around a basic issue of survival, such as food, makes a 
lot of nitty gritty sense. After your conspiracy gets off the ground and looks 
permanent, you should seek to expand it to include more members and an 
emergency food fund should be set up in case something happens in the 
community. There should also be a fund whereby the conspiracy can sponsor 
free community dinners tied into celebrations. Get it together and join the fight for 
a world-wide food conspiracy. Seize the steak! 



CHEAP CHOW 



There are hundreds of good paperback cook books with nutritional cheap recipes 
available in any bookstore. Cooking is a vastly overrated skill. The following are a 
few all-purpose dishes that are easy to make, nutritional and cheap as mud pies. 
You can add or subtract many of the ingredients for variety. 



Hog Farm Granola Breakfast (Road Hog Crispies) 

H c millet 2 c raw oats 

H c cracked wheat 1 c rye flakes 

H c buckwheat groats 1 c wheat flakes 

H c wheat germ 1 c dried fruits and/or nuts 

H c sunflower seeds 3 tbs soy oil 

H c sesame seeds 1 c honey 

2 tbs cornmeal 



Boil the millet in a double boiler for 1/2 hour. Mix in a large bowl all the 
ingredients including the millet. The soy oil and honey should be heated in a 
saucepan over a low flame until bubbles form. Spread the cereal in a baking pan 
and cover with the honey syrup. Toast in oven until brown. Stir once or twice so 
that all the cereal will be toasted. Serve plain or with milk. Refrigerate portion not 
used in a covered container. Enough for ten to twenty people. Make lots and 
store for later meals. All these ingredients can be purchased at any health store 
in a variety of quantities. You can also get natural sugar if you need a sweetener. 
If bought and made in quantity, this fantastically healthy breakfast food will be 
cheaper than the brand name cellophane that passes for cereal. 



Whole Earth Bread 

1 c oats, corn meal, or wheat germ 2 tsp salt 
V^> c water (warm) 2 egg yolks 

H c sugar (raw is best) 4 c flour 

1 pkg active dry yeast _ c corn oil 

1 c dry milk or butter 



Stir lightly in a large bowl the oats, cornmeal or wheat germ (depending on the 
flavor bread you desire), the water and sugar. Sprinkle in the yeast and wait 10 



minutes for the yeast to do its thing. Add salt, egg yolks, corn oil and dry milk. 
Mix with a fork. Blend in the flour. The dough should be dry and a little lumpy. 
Cover with a towel and leave in a warm place for a half hour. Now mash, punch, 
blend and kick the dough and return it covered to its warm place. The dough will 
double in size. When this happens, separate the dough into two even masses 
and mash each one into a greased bread (loaf) pan. Cover the pans and let sit 
until the dough rises to the top of the pans. Bake for 40-45 minutes in a 350 
degree oven that has not been pre-heated. A shallow tray of water in the bottom 
of the oven will keep the bread nice and moist. When you remove the pans from 
the oven, turn out the bread into a rack and let it cool off. Once you get the hang 
of it, you'll never touch ready-made bread, and it's a gas seeing yeast work. 

Street Salad 

Salad can be made by chopping up almost any variety of vegetables, nuts and 
fruits including the stuff you panhandled at the back of supermarkets; dandelions, 
shav, and other wild vegetables; and goods you ripped off inside stores or from 
large farms. A neat fresh dressing consists of one part of oil, two parts wine 
vinegar, finely chopped garlic cloves, salt and pepper. Mix up the ingredients in a 
bottle and add to the salad as you serve it. Russian dressing is simply 
mayonnaise and ketchup mixed. 

Yippie Yogurt 

Yogurt is one of the most nutritional foods in the world. The stuff you buy in 
stores has preservatives added to it reducing its health properties and increasing 
the cost. Yogurt is a bacteria that spreads throughout a suitable culture at the 
correct temperature. Begin by going to a Turkish or Syrian restaurant and buying 
some yogurt to go. Some restaurants boast of yogurt that goes back over a 
hundred years. Put it in the refrigerator. 

Now prepare the culture in which the yogurt will multiply. The consistency you 
want will determine what you use. A milk culture will produce thin yogurt, while 
sweet cream will make a thicker batch. It's the butter fat content that determines 
the consistency and also the number of calories. Half milk and half cream 
combines the best of both worlds. Heat a quart of half and half on a low flame 
until just before the boiling point and remove from the stove. This knocks out 
other bacteria that will compete with the yogurt. Now take a tablespoon of the 
yogurt you got from the restaurant and place it in the bottom of a bowl (not 
metal). Now add the warm liquid. Cover the bowl with a lid and wrap tightly with a 
heavy towel. Place the bowl in a warm spot such as on top of a radiator or in a 
sunny window. A turned-off oven with a tray of boiling water placed in it will do 
well. Just let the bowl sit for about 8 hours (overnight). The yogurt simply grows 
until the whole bowl is yogurt. Yippie! It will keep in the refrigerator for about two 
weeks before turning sour, but even then, the bacteria will produce a fresh batch 
of top quality. Remember when eating it to leave a little to start the next batch. 



For a neat treat add some honey and cinnamon and mix into the yogurt before 
serving. Chopped fruit and nuts are also good. 



Rice and Cong Sauce 

1 c brown rice vegetables 

2 c water 2H tbs soy sauce 
tsp salt 



Bring the water to a boil in a pot and add the salt and rice. Cover and reduce 
flame. Cooking time is about 40 minutes or until rice has absorbed all the water. 
Meanwhile, in a well-greased frying pan, saute a variety of chopped vegetables 
you enjoy. When they become soft and brownish, add salt and 2 cups of water. 
Cover with a lid and lower flame. Simmer for about 40 minutes, peeking to stir 
every once in a while. Then add 2 1/2 tbs of soy sauce, stir and cook another 10 
minutes. The rice should be just cooling off now, so add the sauce to the top of it 
and serve. Great for those long guerrilla hikes. This literally makes up almost the 
entire diet of the National Liberation Front fighter. 

Weatherbeans 

1 lb red kidney beans 2 tbs parsley (chopped) 

2 quarts water H lb pork, smoked sausage 
1 onion (chopped) or ham hock 

1 tbs celery (chopped) 1 lg bay leaf 

1 tsp garlic (minced) salt to season 



Rinse the beans, then place in covered pot and add water and salt. Cook over 
low flame. While cooking, chop up meat and brown in a frying pan. Add onion, 
celery, garlic and parsley and continue sauteing over low flame. Add the pieces 
of meat, vegetables and bay leaf to the beans and cook covered for 1 1/2 to 2 
hours. It may be necessary to add more water if the beans get too dry. Fifteen 
minutes before beans are done, mash about a half cup of the stuff against the 
side of the pan to thicken the liquid. Pour the beans and liquid over some 
steaming rice that you've made by following the directions above. This should 
provide a cheap nutritional meal for about 6 people. 



Hedonist's Deluxe 



2 lobsters 2 qts water 



seaweed 



H lb butter 



Steal two lobsters, watching out for the claw thingies. Beg some seaweed from 
any fish market. Cop the butter using the switcheroo method described in the 
Supermarket section above. When you get home, boil the water in a large 
covered pot and drop in the seaweed and then the lobsters. Put the cover back 
on and cook for about 20 minutes. Melt the butter in a sauce pan and dip the 
lobster pieces in it as you eat. With a booster box, described later you'll be able 
to rip off a bottle of vintage Pouilly-Fuisse in a fancy liquor store. Really, rice is 
nice but... 



At these prices who can afford not to 



FREE CLOTHING & FURNITURE 



FREE CLOTHING 

If shoplifting food seems easy, it's nothing compared to the snatching of clothing. 
Shop only the better stores. Try thing on in those neat secluded stalls. The less 
bulky items such as shirts, vests, belts and socks can be tied around your waist 
or leg with large rubber bands if needed. Just take a number of items in and 
come out with a few less. 

In some cities there are still free stores left over from the flower power days. 
Churches often have give-away clothing programs. You can impersonate a 
clergyman and call one of the large clothing manufacturers in your area. They 
are usually willing to donate a case or two of shirts, trousers or underwear to your 
church raffle or drive to dress up skid row. Be sure to get your sizes. Tell them 
"your boy" will pick up the blessed donation and you'll mention his company in 
the evening prayers. 

If you notice people moving from an apartment or house, ask them if they'll be 
leaving behind clothing. They usually abandon all sorts of items including food, 
furniture and books. Offer to help them carry out stuff if you can keep what they 
won't be taking. 

Make the rounds of a fancy neighborhood with a truck and some friends. Ring 
doorbells and tell the person who answers that you are collecting wearable 
clothing for the "poor homeless victims of the recent tidal wave in Quianto a small 
village in Saudi Arabia." You get the pitch. Make it food and clothing, and say 
you're with a group called Heartline for Decency. A phony letter from a church 
might help here. 

The Salvation Army does this, and you can pick up clothes from them at very 
cheap prices. You can get a pair of snappy casual shoes for 25 cents in many 
bowling alleys by walking out with them on your feet. If you have to leave your 
shoes as a deposit, leave the most beat-up pair you can find. 

Notice if your friends have lost or gained weight. A big change means a lot of 
clothes doing nothing but taking up closet space. Show up at dormitories when 
college is over for the summer or winter season. Go to the train or bus stations 
and tell them you left your raincoat, gloves or umbrella when you came into town. 
They'll take you to a room with thousands of unclaimed items. Pick out what you 
like. While there, notice a neat suitcase or trunk and memorize the markings. 
Later a friend can claim the item. There will be loads of surprises in any suitcase. 
We have a close friend who inherited ten kilos of grass this way. 

Large laundry and dry cleaning chains usually have thousands of items that have 
gone unclaimed. Manufacturers also have shirts, dresses and suits for 



rockbottom prices because of a crooked seam or other fuck-up. Stores have 
reduced rates on display models: Mannequins are mostly all size 40 for men and 
10 for women. Size 7 1/2 is the standard display size for men's shoes. If you are 
these sizes, you can get top styles for less than half price. 

SANDALS 

The Vietnamese and people throughout the Third World make a fantastically 
durable and comfortable pair of sandals out of rubber tires. They cut out a 
section of the outer tire (trace around the outside of the foot with a piece of chalk) 
which when trimmed forms the sole. Next 6 slits re made in the sole so the 
rubber straps can be criss-crossed and slid through the slits. The straps are 
made out of inner tubing. No nails are needed. If you have wide feet, use the new 
wide tread low profiles. For hard going, try radials. For best satisfaction and 
quality, steal the tires off a pig car or a government limousine. 

Let's face it, if you really are into beating the clothing problem, move to a warm 
climate and run around naked. Skin is absolutely free, and will always be in style. 
Speaking of style, the midi and the maxi have obvious advantages when it comes 
to shoplifting and transporting weapons or bombs. 




GUI A GOOD-SI 7 EO HUNK OF TIRE 




TRACE YOUR FOOT. LEAVING AflOLf 14" EXTRA 




STRAPS MAD I PftQ*1 INNER TUBE 



FREE FURNITURE 

Apartment lobbies are good for all kinds of neat furniture. If you want to get fancy 
about it, rent a truck (not one that says U-HAUL-IT or other rental markings) and 
make the pick-up with moving-man-type uniforms. When schools are on strike 
and students hold seminars and debate into the night, Yippies can be found 
going through the dorm lobbies and storage closets hauling off couches, desks, 
printing supplies, typewriters, mimeos, etc. to store in secret underground nests. 



A nervy group of Yippies in the Midwest tried to swipe a giant IBM 360 computer 
while a school was in turmoil. All power to those that bring a wheelbarrow to sit- 
ins. 

Check into a high-class hotel or motel remembering to dress like the wallpaper. 
Carry a large dummy suitcase with you and register under a phony name. Make 
sure you and not the bellboy carry this bag. Use others as a decoy. When you 
get inside the room, grab everything you can stuff in the suitcase: radio, T.V. sets 
(even if it has a special plug you can cut it with a knife and replace the cord), 
blankets, toilet paper, glasses, towels, sheets, lamps, (forget the imitation 
Winslow Homer on the wall) a Bible, soap and toss rugs. Before you leave (odd 
hours are best) hang the DO NOT DISTURB sign on your doorknob. This will 
give you an extra few hours to beat it across the border or check into a new 
hotel. 

Landlords renovating buildings throw out stoves, tables, lamps, refrigerators and 
carpeting. In most cities, each area has a day designated for discarding bulk 
objects. Call the Sanitation Department and say you live in that part of town 
which would be putting out the most expensive shit and find out the pick-up day. 
Fantastic buys can be found cruising the streets late at night. Check out the 
backs of large department stores for floor models, window displays and slightly 
damaged furniture being discarded. 

Construction sites are a good source for building materials to construct furniture. 
(Not to mention explosives.) The large wooden cable spools make great tables. 
Cinderblocks, bricks and boards can quickly be turned into a sharp looking 
bookcase. Doors make tables. Nail kegs convert into stools or chairs. You can 
also always find a number of other supplies hanging around like wiring, pipes, 
lighting fixtures and hard hats. And don't forget those blinking signs and the red 
lanterns for your own light show. Those black oil-fed burners are O.K. for 
cooking, although smoky, and highway flares are swell for making fake dynamite 
bombs. 



STEAL THIS ROOM! 




NAIL KEGS FOR STOOLS 



FREE FURNITURE ROOM 

Designed by OFFTHESTRFETINI 



25 



Shit, I told you we should 've taken the plane 



FREE TRANSPORTATION 
HITCH-HIKING 

Certainly one of the neatest ways of getting where you want to go for nothing is 
to hitch. In the city it's a real snap. Just position yourself at a busy intersection 



and ask the drivers for a lift when they stop for the red light. If you're hitching on a 
road where the traffic zooms by pretty fast, be sure to stand where the car will 
have room to safely pull off the road. Traveling long distances, even cross- 
country, can be easy if you have some sense of what you are doing. 

A lone hitch-hiker will do much better than two or more. A man and woman will 
do very well together. Single women are certain to get propositioned and possibly 
worse. Amerikan males have endless sexual fantasies about picking up a poor 
lonesome damsel in distress. Unless your karate and head are in top form, 
women should avoid hitching alone. Telling men you have V.D. might help in 
difficult situations. 

New England and the entire West Coast are the best sections for easy hitches. 
The South and Midwest can sometimes be a real hassle. Easy Rider and all that. 
The best season to hitch is in the summer. Daytime is much better than night. If 
you have to hitch at night, get under some type of illumination where you'll be 
seen. 

Hitch-hiking is legal in most states, but remember you always can get a "say-so" 
bust. A "say-so" arrest is to police what Catch-22 is to the Army. When you ask 
why you're under arrest, the pig answers, "cause I say-so." If you stand on the 
shoulder of the road, the pigs won't give you too bad a time. If you've got long 
hair, cops will often stop to play games. You can wear a hat with your hair tucked 
under to avoid hassles. However this might hurt your ability to get rides, since 
many straights will pick up hippies out of curiosity who would not pick up a 
straight scruffy looking kid. Freak drivers usually only pick up other freaks. 

Once in a while you hear stories of fines levied or even a few arrests for hitching 
(Flagstaff, Arizona is notorious), but even in the states where it is illegal, the law 
is rarely enforced. If you're stopped by the pigs, play dumb and they'll just tell you 
to move along. You can wait until they leave and then let your thumb hang out 
again. 

Hitchin on super highways is really far out. It's illegal but you won't get hassled if 
you hitch at the entrances. On a fucked-up exit, take your chances hitching right 
on the road, but keep a sharp eye out for porkers. When you get a ride be 
discriminating. Find out where the driver is headed. If you are at a good spot, 
don't take a ride under a hundred miles that won't end up in a location just as 
good. When the driver is headed to an out-of-the-way place, ask him to let you 
off where you can get the best rides. If he's going to a particularly small town, ask 
him to drive you to the other side of thy town line. It's usually only a mile or two. 
Small towns often enforce all sorts of "say-so" ordinances. If you get stuck on the 
wrong side of town, it would be wise to even hoof it through the place. Getting to 
a point on the road where the cars are inter-city rather than local traffic is always 
preferable. 



When you hit the road you should have a good idea of how to get where you are 
going. You can pick up a free map at any gas station. Long distance routes, road 
conditions, weather and all sorts of information can be gotten free by calling the 
American Automobile Association in any city. Say that you are a member driving 
to Phoenix, Arizona or wherever your destination is, and find out what you want 
to know. Always carry a sign indicating where you are going. If you get stranded 
on the road without one, ask in a diner or gas station for a piece of cardboard 
and a magic marker. Make the letters bold and fill them in so they can be seen by 
drivers from a distance. If your destination is a small town, the sign should 
indicate the state. For really long distances, EAST or WEST is best. Unless, of 
course, you're going north or south. A phony foreign flag sewed on your pack 
also helps. 

Carrying dope is not advisable, and although searching you is illegal, few pigs 
can read the Constitution. If you are carrying when the patrol car pulls up, tell 
them you are Kanadian and hitching through Amerika. Highway patrols are very 
uptight about promoting incidents with foreigners. The foreign bit goes over 
especially well with small-town types, and is also amazingly good for avoiding 
hassles with greasers. If you can't hack this one, tell them you are a reporter for a 
newspaper writing a feature story on hitching around the country. This story has 
averted many a bust. 

Don't be shy when you hitch. Go into diners and gas stations and ask people if 
they're heading East or to Texas. Sometimes gas station attendants will help. 
When in the car be friendly as hell. Offer to share the driving if you've got a 
license. If you're broke, you can usually bum a meal or a few bucks, maybe even 
a free night's lodging. Never be intimidated into giving money for a ride. 

As for what to carry when hitching, the advice is to travel light. The rule is to 
make up a pack of the absolute minimum, then cut that in half. Hitching is an art 
form as is all survival. Master it and you'll travel on a free trip forever. 

FREIGHTING 

There is a way to hitch long distances that has certain advantages over letting 
your thumb hang out for hours on some two-laner. Learn about riding the trains 
and you'll always have that alternative. Hitchhiking at night can be impossible, 
but hopping a is easier at night than by day. By hitchhiking days and hopping 
freights and sleeping on them at night, you can cover incredible distances rapidly 
and stay well rested. Every city and most large towns have a freight yard. You 
can find it by following the tracks or asking where the freight yard is located. 

When you get to the yard, ask the workmen when the next train leaving in your 
direction will be pulling out. Unlike the phony Hollywood image, railroad men are 
nice to folks who drop by to grab a ride. Most yards don't have a guard or a "bull" 
as they are called. Even if they do, he is generally not around. If there is a bull 



around, the most he's going to do is tell you it's private property and ask you to 
leave. There are exceptions to this rule, such as the notorious Lincoln, Nebraska, 
and Las Vegas, Nevada, but by asking you can find out. Even if he asks you to 
leave or throws you out, sneak back when your train is pulling out and jump 
aboard. 

After you've located the right train for your trip, hunt for an empty boxcar to ride. 
The men in the yards will generally point one out if you ask. Pig-sties, flat cars 
and coal cars are definitely third class due to exposure to the elements. Boxcars 
are by far the best. They are clean and the roof over your head helps in bad 
weather and cuts down the wind. Boxcars with a hydro-cushion suspension 
system used for carrying fragile cargo make for the smoothest ride. Unless you 
get one, you should be prepared for a pretty bumpy and noisy voyage. 

You should avoid cars with only one door open, because the pin may break, 
locking you in. A car with both doors open gives you one free chance. Pig-backs 
(trailers on flatcars) are generally considered unsafe. Most trains make a number 
of short hops, so if time is an important factor try to get on a "hot shot" express. A 
hot shot travels faster and has priority over other trains in crowded yards. You 
should favor a hot shot even if you have to wait an extra hour or two or more to 
get one going your way. 

If you're traveling at night, be sure to dress warmly. You can freeze your ass off. 
Trains might not offer the most comfortable ride, but they go through beautiful 
countryside that you'd never see from the highway or airway. There are no 
billboards, road signs, cops, Jack-in-the-Boxes, gas stations or other artifacts of 
honky culture. You'll get dirty on the trains so wear old clothes. Don't pass up this 
great way to travel cause some bullshit western scared you out of it. 

CARS 

If you know how to drive and want to travel long distances, the auto 
transportation agencies are a good deal. Look in the Yellow Pages under 
Automobile Transportation and Trucking or Driveway. Rules vary, but normally 
you must be over 21 and have a valid license. Call up and tell them when and 
where you want to go and they will let you know if they have a car available. 
They give you the car and a tank of gas free. You pay the rest. Go to pick up the 
car alone, then get some people to ride along and help with the driving and 
expenses. You can make New York to San Francisco for about eighty dollars in 
tolls and gas in four days without pushing. Usually you have the car for longer 
and can make a whole thing out of it. You must look straight when you go to the 
agency. This can be simply be done by wetting down your hair and shoving it 
under a cap. 

Another good way to travel cheaply is to find somebody who has a car and is 
going your way. Usually underground newspapers list people who either want 



rides or riders. Another excellent place to find information is your local campus. 
Every campus has a bulletin board for rides. Head shops and other community- 
minded stores have notices up on the wall. 

Gas 

If you have a car and need some gas late at night you can get a quart and then 
some by emptying the hoses from the pumps into your tank. There is always a 
fair amount of surplus gas left when the pumps are shut off. 

If your traveling in a car and don't have enough money for gas and tolls, stop at 
the bus station and see if anybody wants a lift. If you find someone, explain your 
money situation and make a deal with him. Hitch-hikers also can be asked to 
chip in on the gas. 

You can carry a piece of tubing in the trunk of your car and when the gas 
indicator gets low, pull up to a nice looking Cadillac on some dark street and 
syphon off some of his gas. Just park your car so the gas tank is next to the 
Caddy's, or use a large can. Stick the hose into his tank, suck up enough to get 
things flowing, and stick the other end into your tank. Having a lower level of 
liquid, you tank will draw gas until you and the Caddy are equal. "To each 
according to his need, from each according to his ability," wrote Marx. Bet you 
hadn't realized until now that the law of gravity affects economics. 

Another way is to park in a service station over their filler hole. Lift off one lid (like 
a small manhole cover), run down twenty feet of rubber tubing thru the hole 
you've cut in your floorboard, then turn on the electric pump which you have 
installed to feed into your gas tank. All they ever see is a parked car. This 
technique is especially rewarding when you have a bus. 

BUSES 

If you'd rather leave the driving and the paying to them, try swiping a ride on the 
bus. Here's a method that has worked well. Get a rough idea of where the bus 
has stopped before it arrived at your station. If you are not at the beginning or 
final stop on the route, wait until the bus you want pulls in and then out of the 
station. Make like the bus just pulled off without you while you went to the 
bathroom. If there is a station master, complain like crazy to him. Tell him you're 
going to sue the company if your luggage gets stolen. He'll put you on the next 
bus for free. If there is no station master, lay your sad tale on the next driver that 
comes along. If you know when the last bus left, just tell the driver you've been 
stranded there for eight hours and you left your kid sleeping on the other bus. 
Tell him you called ahead to the company and they said to grab the next bus and 
they would take care of it. 



The next method isn't totally free but close enough. It's called the hopper-bopper. 
Find a bus that makes a few stops before it gets to where you want to go. The 
more stops with people getting in our out the better. Buy a ticket for the short hop 
and stay on the bus until you end up at your destination. You must develop a 
whole style in order to pull this off because the driver has to forget you are 
connected with the ticket you gave him. Dress unobtrusively or make sure the 
driver hasn't seen your face. Pretend to be asleep when the short hop station is 
reached. If you get questioned, just act upset about sleeping through the stop 
you "really" want and ask if it's possible to get a ride back. 

AIRLINES 

Up and away, junior outlaws! If you really want to get where you're going in a 
hurry, don't forget skyjacker's paradise. Don't forget the airlines. They make an 
unbelievable amount of bread on their inflated prices, ruin the land with incredible 
amounts of polluting wastes and noise, and deliberately hold back aviation 
advances that would reduce prices and time of flight. We know two foolproof 
methods to fly free, but unfortunately we feel publishing them would cause the 
airlines to change their policy. The following methods have been talked about 
enough, so the time seems right to make them known to a larger circle of friends. 

A word should be said right off about stolen tickets. Literally millions of dollars 
worth of airline tickets are stolen each year. If you have good underworld 
contacts, you can get a ticket to anywhere you want at one-fourth the regular 
price. If you are charged more, you are getting a slight rooking. In any case, you 
can get a ticket for any flight or date and just trade it in. They are actually as 
good as cash, except that it takes 30 days to get a refund, and by then they 
might have traced the stolen tickets. If you can get a stolen ticket, exchange or 
use it as soon as possible, and always fly under a phony name. A stolen ticket for 
a trip around the world currently goes for one hundred and fifty dollars in New 
York. 

One successful scheme requires access to the mailbox of a person listed in the 
local phone book. Let's use the name Ron Davis as an example. A woman calls 
one of the airlines with a very efficient sounding rap such as: "Hello, this is Mr. 
Davis' secretary at Allied Chemical. He and his wife would like to fly to Chicago 
on Friday. Could you mail two first-class tickets to his home and bill us here at 
Allied?" Every major corporation probably has a Ron Davis, and the airlines 
rarely bother checking anyway. Order your tickets two days before you wish to 
travel, and pick them up at the mailbox or address you had them sent to. If you 
are uptight in the airport about the tickets, just go up to another airline and have 
the tickets exchanged. 

One gutsy way to hitch a free ride is to board the plane without a ticket. This is 
how it works. Locate the flight you want and rummage through a wastebasket 
until you find an envelope for that particular airline. Shuffle by the counter men 



(which is fairly easy if it's busy). When the boarding call is made, stand in line 
and get on the plane. Flash the empty envelope at the stewardess as you board 
the plane. Carry a number of packages as a decoy, so the stewardess won t ask 
you to open the envelope. If she does, which is rare, and sees you have no 
ticket, act surprised. "Oh my gosh, it must have fallen out in the wash room," will 
do fine. Run back down the ramp as if you're going to retrieve the ticket. 
Disappear and try later on a different airline. Nine out of ten revolutionaries say 
it's the only way to fly. This trick works only on airlines that don't use the boarding 
pass system. 

If you want to be covered completely, use the hopper-bopper method described 
in the section on Buses, with this added security precaution. Buy two tickets from 
different cashiers, or better still, one from an agent in town. Both will be on the 
same flight. Only one ticket will be under a phony name and for the short hop, 
white the ticket under your real name will be for your actual destination. At the 
boarding counter, present the short hop ticket. You will be given an envelope with 
a white receipt in it. Actually, the white receipt is the last leaf in your ticket. Once 
you are securely seated and aloft, take out the ticket with your name and final 
destination. Gently peel away everything but the white receipt. Place the still valid 
ticket back in your pocket. Now remove from the envelope and destroy the short 
hop receipt. In its place, put the receipt for the ticket you have in your pocket. 

When you land at the short hop airport, stay on the plane. Usually the 
stewardesses just ask you if you are remaining on the flight. If you have to, you 
can actually show her your authentic receipt. When you get to your destination, 
you merely put the receipt back on the bonafide ticket that you still have in your 
pocket. It isn't necessary that they be glued together. Present the ticket for a 
refund or exchange it for another ticket. This method works well even in foreign 
countries. You can actually fly around the world for $88.00 using the hopper- 
bopper method and switching receipts. 

If you can't hack these shucks you should at least get a Youth Card and travel for 
half fare. If you are over twenty-two but still in your twenties, you can easily pass. 
Get a card from a friend who has similar color hair and eyes. Your friend can 
easily get one from another airline. You can master your friend's signature and 
get a supporting piece of identification from him to back up your youth card if you 
find it necessary. If you have a friend who works for an airline or travel agency, 
just get a card under your own name and an age below the limit. Your friend can 
validate the card. Flying youth fare is on stand-by, so it's always a good idea to 
call ahead and book a number of reservations under fictitious names on the flight 
you'll be taking. This will fuck up the booking of regular passengers and insure 
you a seat. 

By the way, if you fly cross-country a number of times, swipe one of the plug-in 
head sets. Always remember to pack it in your traveling bag. This way you'll save 



a two dollar fee charged for the in-flight movie. The headsets are interchangeable 
on all airlines. 

One way to fly free is to actually hitch a ride. Look for the private plane area 
located at every airport, usually in some remote part of the field. You can find it 
by noticing where the small planes without airline markings take off and land. Go 
over to the runways and ask around. Often the mechanics will let you know when 
someone is leaving for your destination and point out a pilot. Tell him you lost 
your ticket and have to get back to school. Single pilots often like to have a 
passenger along and it's a real gas flying in a small plane. 

Some foreign countries have special arrangements for free air travel to visiting 
writers, artists or reporters. Brazil and Argentina are two we know of for sure. Call 
or write the embassy of the country you wish to visit in Washington or their 
mission to the United Nations in New York. Writing works best, especially if you 
can cop some stationery from a newspaper or publishing house. Tell them you 
will be writing a feature story for some magazine on the tourist spots or 
handcrafts of the country. The embassy will arrange for you to travel gratis 
aboard one of their air force planes. The planes leave only from Washington and 
New York at unscheduled times. Once you have the O.K. letter from the 
embassy you're all set. This is definitely worth checking out if you want to 
vacation in a foreign country with all sorts of free bonuses thrown in. 

A one-way ride is easy if you want to get into skyjacking. Keep the piece or knife 
in your shoe to avoid possible detection with the "metal scanner," a long black 
tube that acts like a geiger counter. Or use a plastic knife or bomb. It's also 
advisable to wrap your dope in a non-metallic material. Avoid tinfoil. 

The crews have instructions to take you wherever you want to go even if they 
have to refuel, but watch out for air marshals. To avoid air marshals and 
searches pick an airline which flies short domestic hops. You should plan to end 
up in a country hostile to the United States or you'll end up right back where you 
came from in some sturdy handcuffs. One dude wanted to travel in style so he 
demanded $100,000 as a going-away gift. The airlines quickly paid off. The guy 
then got greedy and demanded a hundred million dollars. When he returned to 
pick up the extra pocket money, he got nabbed. None the less, skyjacking 
appears to be the cheapest, fastest way to get away from it all. 



IN CITY TRAVEL 



Any of the public means of transportation can be ripped off easily. Get on the bus 
with a large bill and present it after the bus has left the stop. If the bus is 
crowded, slip in the back door when it opens to dispatch passengers. 

Two people can easily get through the turnstile in a subway on one token by 
doubling up. In some subway systems cards are given out to high school kids or 
senior citizens or employees of the city. The next time you are in a subway 
station notice people flashing cards to the man in the booth and entering through 
the "exit" door. Notice the color of the card used by people in your age group. 
Get a piece of colored paper in a stationery store or find some card of the same 
color you need. Put this "card" in a plastic window of your wallet and flash it in 
the same way those with a bona fide pass do. 

Before entering a turnstile, always test the swing bar. If someone during the day 
put in an extra token, it's still in the machine waiting for you to enter free. 

For every token and coin deposited in an automatic turnstile, there is a foreign 
coin the same size for much less that will work in the machine. (See the Yippie 
Currency Exchange, following, for more info.) Buy a cheap bag of assorted 
foreign coins from a dealer that you can locate in the Yellow Pages. Size up the 
coins with a token from your subway system. You can get any of these coins in 
bulk from a large dealer. Generally they are about 1,000 for five dollars. Tell him 
you make jewelry out of them if he gets suspicious. Giving what almost amounts 
to free subway rides away is a communal act of love. The best outlaws in the 
world rip-off shit for a lot more people than just themselves. Robin Hood lives! 

FREE LAND 

Despite what you may have heard, there is still some rural land left in Amerika. 
The only really free land is available in Alaska and remote barren areas of the 
western states. The latest information in this area is found in a periodic 
publication called Our Public Lands, available from the Superintendent of 
Documents, Washington, D.C. 20402. It costs $1 .00 for a subscription. Also 
contact the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, 
Washington, D.C. 20240 and ask for information on "homesteading." By the time 
this book is out though, the Secretary of the Interior's friends in the oil companies 
might have stolen all the available free land. Being an oil company is about the 
easiest way to steal millions. Never call it stealing though, always refer to it as 
"research and development." 

Continental United States has no good free land that we know of, but there are 
some very low prices in areas suited for country communities. Write to School of 
Living, Freeland, Maryland, for their newspaper Green Revolution with the latest 
information in this area. Canada has free land available, and the Canadian 



government will send you a free list if you write to the Department of Land and 
Forests, Parliament Building, Quebec City, Canada. Also write to the 
Geographical Branch, Department of Mines and Technical Surveys, Parliament 
Building, Quebec City, Canada. Correspondence can be carried out with the 
Communications Group, 2630 Point Grey Road, Vancouver 8, British Columbia, 
Canada, for advice on establishing a community in Canada. The islands off the 
coast of British Columbia, its western region and the area along the Kootenai 
River are among the best locations. 

If you just want to rip off some land, there are two ways to do it; openly or 
secretly. If you are going to do it out front, look around for a piece of land that's in 
dispute, which has its sovereignty in question-islands and deltas between the 
U.S. and Canada, or between the U.S. and Mexico, or any number of other 
borderline lands. You might even consider one of the abandoned oil-drilling 
platforms, which are fair game under high seas salvage laws. The possibilities 
are endless. 

If you intend to do it quietly, you will want a completely different type of location. 
Find a rugged area with lots of elbow room and plenty of places to hide, like the 
Rocky Mountains, Florida swamps, Death Valley, or New York City. Put together 
a tight band of guerrillas and do your thing. With luck you will last forever. 

If you just want to camp out or try some hermit living in the plushest surroundings 
available, you'll do best to head for one of the national parks. Since the parks are 
federal property, there's very little the local fuzz can do about you, and the forest 
rangers are generally the live-and-let-live types, although there have been 
increasing reports of long-hairs being vamped on by Smokey the Pig, as in 
Yosemite. You can get a complete list from National Park Service, Department of 
the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. The following is a list of some good ones: 

• ALABAMA-Russell Cave National Monument, Bridgeport 35740 

. ARIZONA-Grand Canyon National Park, Box 129, Grand Canyon 86023 

. ARKANSAS-Hot Springs National Park, Box 1219, Hot Springs 71901 

. CALIFORNIA- Yosemite National Park, Box 577, Yosemite 95389* 

• COLORADO-Rocky Mountain National Park, Estes Park, 80517 

. FLORIDA-Everglades National Park, Box 279, Homestead 33030 
. IDAHO-Boise National Forest, 413 Idaho Street, Boise 83702 

• ILLINOIS-Shawnee National Forest, Harrisburg National Bank Building, 
Harrisburg 62946 

. KENTUCKY-Mammoth Cave National Park, Mammoth Cave 42259 
. LOUISIANA-Kisatchie National Forest, 2500 Shreveport Hwy., Pineville 
71360 

. MAINE-Acadia National Park, Box 338, Bar Harbor 04609 

• MARYLAND-Assateague Island National Seashore, Rte. 2 Box 111, Berlin 
21811 

. MASSACHUSETTS-Cape Cod National Seashore, South Wellfleet 02663 



• MICHIGAN-Hiawatha National Forest, Post Office Building, Escanaba 
49829 

. MISSOURI-Mark Twain National Forest, 304 Pershing St., Springfield 
65806 

• NEVADA-Lake Mead National Recreation Area, 601 Nevada Hwy, 
Boulder City 89005 

• NEW MEXICO-Aztec Ruins National Monument, Route 1, Box 101, Aztec 
87410 

• NEW YORK-Fire Island National Seashore c/o New York City National 
Park Service Group, 28 E. 20th St., New York, NY 10003 

. NORTH CAROLINA-Wright Brothers National Memorial Box 457, Manteo 
27954 

. OKLAHOMA-Platt National Park, Box 201 , Sulphur 73086 

• OREGON-Crater Lake National Park, Box 7, Crater Lake 97604 

• UTAH-Bryce Canyon National Park, Bryce Canyon 84717 

. WYOMING-Yellowstone National Park, Yellowstone Park 83020 

*This summer Yosemite forest rangers tried to evict a group of Yippies from their 
encampment. The Yippies rioted in the valley, spooked the tourists, burned cars 
and fought for their right to stay. 

Earth People's Park is an endeavor to purchase land and allow people to come 
and live for free. They function as a clearing house for people that want to donate 
land and those who wish to settle. They own 600 acres in northern Vermont and 
are trying to raise money to buy more. Write to Earth People's Park, P.O. Box 
313, 1230 Grant Ave., San Francisco, California 94133. 

People's Parks are sprouting up all over as people reclaim the land being ripped 
off by universities, factories, and corrupt city planning agencies. The model is the 
People's Park struggle in Berkeley during the spring of 1969. The people fought 
to defend a barren parking lot they had turned into a community center with 
grass, swings, free-form sculpture and gardens. The University of California, with 
the aid of Ronald Reagan and the Berkeley storm troopers, fought with guns, 
clubs and tear gas to regain the land from the outlaw people. The pigs killed 
James Rector and won an empty victory. For now the park is fenced off, tarred 
over and converted into unused basketball courts and unused parking lots. Not 
one person has violated the oath never to set foot on the site. It stands, cold and 
empty, two blocks north of crowded Telegraph Avenue. If the revolution does not 
survive, all the land will perish under the steam roller of imperialism. People's 
Death Valley will happen in our lifetime. 

FREE HOUSING 

If you are in a city without a place to stay, ask the first group of hip-looking folks 
where you can crash. You might try the office of the local underground 
newspaper. In any hip community, the underground newspaper is generally the 



source of the best up-to-the-moment information. But remember that they are 
very busy, and don't impose on them. Many churches now have runaway 
houses. If you are under sixteen and can hack some bullshit jive about 
"adjusting," "opening a dialogue," and "things aren't that bad," then these are the 
best deals for free room and board. Check out the ground rules first, i.e., length 
of stay allowed, if they inform your parents or police, facilities and services 
available. Almost always they can be accepted at their word, which is something 
very sacred to missionaries. If they became known as double-crossers, the 
programs would be finished. 

Some hip communities have crash pads set up, but these rarely last more than a 
few months. To give out the addresses we have would be quite impractical. We 
have never run across a crash pad that lasted more than a month or so. If in a 
cit, try hustling a room at a college dorm. This is especially good in summer or on 
week-ends. If you have a sleeping bag, the parks are always good, as is "tar 
jungle" or sleeping on the roofs of tall buildings. Local folks will give you some 
good advice on what to watch out for and information on vagrancy laws which 
might help you avoid getting busted. 

For more permanent needs, squatting is not only free, it's a revolutionary act. If 
you stay quiet you can stay indefinitely. If you have community support you may 
last forever. 

COMMUNES 

In the city or in the country, communes can be a cheap and enjoyable way of 
living. Although urban and rural communes face different physical environments, 
they share common group problems. The most important element in communal 
living is the people, for the commune will only make it if everyone is fairly 
compatible. A nucleus of 4 to 7 people is best and it is necessary that no member 
feels extremely hostile to any other member when the commune gets started. 
The idea that things will work out later is pig swill. More communes have busted 
up over incompatibility than any other single factor. People of similar interests 
and political philosophies should live together. One speed freak can wreck 
almost any group. There are just too many day-to-day hassles involved living in a 
commune to not start off compatible in as many ways as possible. The ideal 
arrangement is for the people to have known each other before they move in 
together. 

Once you have made the opening moves, evening meetings will occasionally be 
necessary to divide up the responsibilities and work out the unique problems of a 
communal family. Basically, there are two areas that have to be pretty well 
agreed upon if the commune is to survive. People's attitudes toward Politics, Sex, 
Drugs and Decision-making have to be in fairly close agreement. Then the even 
most important decisions about raising the rent, cleaning, cooking and 
maintenance will have to be made. Ground rules for inviting non-members should 



be worked out before the first time it happens, as this is a common cause for 
friction. Another increasingly important issue involves defense. Communes have 
continually been targets of attack by the more Neanderthal elements of the 
surrounding community. In Minneapolis for example, "headhunts" as they are 
called are commonplace. You should have full knowledge of the local gun laws 
and a collective defense should be worked out. 

Physical attacks are just one way of making war on communes and, hence, our 
Free Nation. Laws, cops, and courts are there to protect the power and the 
property of those that already got the shit. Police harassment, strict enforcement 
of health codes and fire regulations and the specially designed anti-commune 
laws being passed by town elders, should all be known and understood by the 
members of a commune before they even buy or rent property. On all these 
matters, you should seek out experienced members of communes already 
established in the vicinity you wish to settle. Work out mutual defense 
arrangements with nearby families-both legal and extralegal. Remember, not 
only do you have the right to self-defense, but it is your duty to our new Nation to 
erase the "Easy-Rider-take-any-shit" image which invites attack. Let them know 
you are willing to defend your way of living and your chances of survival will 
increase. 

URBAN LIVING 

If you're headed for city living, the first thing you'll have to do is locate an 
apartment or loft, an increasingly difficult task. At certain times of the year, 
notably June and September, the competition is fierce because of students 
leaving or entering school. If you can avoid these two months, you'll have a better 
selection. A knowledge of your plans in advance can aid a great deal in finding 
an apartment, for the area can be scouted before you move in. Often, if you know 
of people leaving a desirable apartment, you can make arrangements with the 
landlord, and a deposit will hold the place. If you let them know you're willing to 
buy their furniture, people will be more willing to give you information about when 
they plan to move. Watch out for getting screwed on exorbitant furniture swindles 
by the previous tenants and excessive demands on the part of the landlords. In 
most cities, the landlord is not legally allowed to ask for more than one month's 
rent as security. Often the monthly rent itself is regulated by a city agency. A little 
checking on the local laws and a visit to the housing agency might prove well 
worth it. 

Don't go to a rental agency unless you are willing to pay an extra month's rent as 
a fee. Wanted ads in newspapers and bulletin boards located in community 
centers and supermarkets have some leads. Large universities have a service for 
finding good apartments for administrators, faculty and students, in that order. 
Call the university, say you have just been appointed to such-and-such position 
and you need housing in the area. They will want to know all your requirements 



and rent limitations, but often they have very good deals available, especially if 
you've appointed yourself to a high enough position. 

Aside from these, the best way is to scout a desired area and inquire about future 
apartments. Often landlords or rental agencies have control over a number of 
buildings in a given area. You can generally find a nameplate inside the hall of 
the building. Calling them directly will let you know of any apartments available. 

When you get an apartment, furnishing will be the next step. You can double 
your sleeping space by building bunk beds. Nail two by fours securely from 
ceiling to floor, about three feet from the walls, where the beds are desired. Then 
build a frame out of two by fours at a convenient height. Make sure you use nails 
or screws strong enough to support the weight of people sleeping or balling. Nail 
a sheet of 3/4 inch plywood on the frame. Mattresses and almost all furniture 
needed for your pal can be gotten free (see section on Free Furniture). 
Silverware can be copped at any self-service restaurant. 

RURAL LIVING 

If you are considering moving to the country, especially as a group, you are 
talking about farms and farmland. There are some farms for rent, and 
occasionally a family that has to be away for a year or two will let you live on their 
farm if you keep the place in repair. These can be found advertised in the back of 
various farming magazines and in the classified sections of newspapers, 
especially the Sunday editions. Generally speaking, however, if you're interested 
in a farm, you should be considering an outright purchase. 

First, you have to determine in what part of the country you want to live in terms 
of the climate you prefer and how far away from the major cities you wish to 
locate. The least populated states, such as Utah, Idaho, the Dakotas, Montana 
and the like, have the cheapest prices and the lowest tax rates. The more 
populated a state, and in turn, the closer to a city, the higher the commercial 
value of the land. 

There are hundreds of different types of farms, so the next set of questions you'll 
have to raise concerns the type of farm activity you'll want to engage in. Cattle 
farms are different than vegetable farms or orchards. Farms come in sizes: from 
half an acre to ranches larger than the state of Connecticut. They will run in price 
from $30 to $3000 an acre, with the most expensive being prime farmland in 
fertile river valleys located close to an urban area. The further away from the city 
and the further up a hill, the cheaper the land gets. It also gets woodier, rockier 
and steeper, which means less tillable land. 

If you are talking of living in a farm house and maybe having a small garden and 
some livestock for your own use, with perhaps a pond on the property, you are 
looking for what is called a recreational farm. When you buy a recreational farm, 



naturally you are interested in the house, barn, well, fences, chicken-coop, 
corrals, woodsheds and other physical structures on the property. Unless these 
are in unusually good condition or unique, they do not enter into the sale price as 
major factors. It is the land itself that is bought and sold. 

Farmland is measured in acreage; an acre being slightly more than 43,560 
square feet. The total area is measured in 40-acre plots. Thus, if a farmer or a 
real estate agent says he has a plot of land down the road, he means a 40-acre 
farm. Farms are generally measured this way, with an average recreational farm 
being 160 acres in size or an area covering about 1/2 square mile. A reasonable 
rate for recreational farmland 100 miles from a major city with good water and a 
livable house would be about $50 per acre. For a 160-acre farm, it would be 
$8,000, which is not an awful lot considering what you are getting. For an overall 
view, get the free catalogues and brochures provided by the United Farm 
Agency, 61 2 W. 47th St., Kansas City, Mo. 641 1 2. 

Now that you have a rough idea of where and what type of farm you want, you 
can begin to get more specific. Check out the classified section in the Sunday 
newspaper of the largest city near your desired location. Get the phone book and 
call or write to real estate agencies in the vicinity. Unlike the city, where there is a 
sellers' market, rural estate agents collect their fee from the seller of the property, 
so you won't have to worry about the agent's fee. 

When you have narrowed down the choices, the next thing you'll want to look at 
is the plot book for the county. The plot book has all the farms in each township 
mapped out. It also shows terrain variations, type of housing on the land, location 
of rivers, roads and a host of other pertinent information. Road accessibility, 
especially in the winter, is an important factor. If the farms bordering the one you 
have selected are abandoned or not in full use, then for all intents and purposes, 
you have more land than you are buying. 

After doing all this, you are prepared to go look at the farm itself. Notice the 
condition of the auxiliary roads leading to the house. You'll want an idea of what 
sections of the land are tillable. Make note of how many boulders you'll have to 
clear to do some planting. Also note how many trees there are and to what extent 
the brush has to be cut down. Be sure and have a good idea of the insect 
problems you can expect. Mosquitoes or flies can bug the shit out of you. Feel 
the soil where you plan to have a garden and see how rich it is. If there are fruit 
trees, check their condition. Taste the water. Find out if hunters or tourists come 
through the land. Examine the house. The most important things are the 
basement and the roof. In the basement examine the beams for dry rot and 
termites. See how long it will be before the roof must be replaced. Next check the 
heating system, the electrical wiring and the plumbing. Then you'll want to know 
about services such as schools, snow plowing, telephones, fire department and 
finally about your neighbors. If the house is beyond repair, you might still want 
the farm, especially if you are good at carpentry. Cabins, A-Frames, domes and 



tepees are all cheaply constructed with little experience. Get the materials from 
your nearest military installation. 

Finally, check out the secondary structures on the land to see how usable they 
are. If there is a pond, you'll want to see how deep it is for swimming. If there are 
streams, you'll want to know about the fishing possibilities; and if large wooded 
areas, the hunting. 

In negotiating the final sales agreement, you should employ a lawyer. You'll also 
want to check out the possibility of negotiating a bank loan for the farm. Don't 
forget that you have to pay taxes on the land, so inquire from the previous owner 
or agent as to the tax bill. Usually, you can count on paying about $50 annually 
per 40-acre plot. 

Finally, check out the federal programs available in the area. If you can learn the 
ins and outs of the government programs, you can rip off plenty. The Feed-Grain 
Program of the Department of Agriculture pays you not to grow grain. The Cotton 
Subsidy Program pays you not to grow cotton. Also look into the Soil Bank 
Program of the United States Development Association and various Department 
of Forestry programs which pay you to plant trees. Between not planting cotton 
and planting trees, you should be able to manage. 

LIST OF COMMUNES 

The most complete list of city and country communes is available for $1 .00 from 
Alternatives Foundation, Modern Utopian, 1526 Gravensteur Highway North, 
Sebastopol, California 95427. The phone is (707) 823-6168. The list is kept up to 
date. For all communes, you must write in advance if you plan to visit. Almost 
every commune will give you information about the local conditions and the 
problems they face if you write them a letter. Here is a list of some you might like 
to write to for more information. Avoid becoming a free-loader on your sisters and 
brothers. 

• California 

o ALTERNATIVES FOUNDATION-Box 1264, Berkeley, California 
94709. (Dick Fairfield) Communal living, total sexuality, peak 
experience training centers. Dedicated to the cybernated-tribal 
society. 

o BHODAN CENTER OF INQUIRY-Sierra Route, Oakhurst, 
California 93644. Phone (209) 683-4976.. (Charles Davis) 
Seminars on Human Community, IC development on the land, 
founded 1934, 13 members. Trial period for new members. Visitors 
check in advance. 

• Colorado 



o DROP CITY-Rt. 1, Box 125, Trinidad, Colorado 81082. Founded 
1965. New members must meet specific criteria. Anarchist, artist, 
dome houses. 

• New Mexico 

o LAMA FOUNDATION-Box 444, San Cristobal, N.M. 

• New York 

o CITY ISLAND COMMUNE-284 City Island Avenue, Bronx, NY. 

Visitors check in advance. Revolutionary, 
o ATLANTIS l-RFD 5, Box 22A, Saugerties, NY 12477. Visitors and 

new members welcome. 

• Oregon 

o FAMILY OF MYSTIC ARTS-Box 546, Sunny Valley, Oregon 

• Pennsylvania 

o TANGUY HOMESTEADS-West Chester, Pennsylvania. Suburban, 
non-sectarian, co-op housing and community fellowship. 

• Washington 

o MAGIC MOUNTAIN-52nd and 19th Streets, Seattle, Washington, 
(c/o Miriam Roder). 

FREE EDUCATION 

Usually when you ask somebody in college why they are there, they'll tell you it's 
to get an education. The truth of it is, they are there to get the degree so that they 
can get ahead in the rat race. Too many college radicals are two-timing punks. 
The only reason you should be in college is to destroy it. If there is stuff that you 
want to learn though, there is a way to get a college education absolutely free. 
Simply send away for the schedule of courses at the college of your choice. 
Make up the schedule you want and audit the classes. In smaller classes this 
might be a problem, but even then, if, the teacher is worth anything at all, he'll let 
you stay. In large classes, no one will ever object. 

If you need books for a course, write to the publisher claiming you are a lecturer 
at some school and considering using their book in your course. They will always 
send you free books. 

There are Free Universities springing up all over our new Nation. Anybody can 
teach any course. People sign up for the courses and sometimes pay a token 
registration fee. This money is used to publish a catalogue and pay the rent. If 
you're on welfare you don't have to pay. You can take as many or as few courses 
as you want. Classes are held everywhere: in the instructor's house, in the park, 
on the beach, at one of the student's houses or in liberated buildings. Free 
Universities offer courses ranging from Astrology to the Use of Firearms. The 
teaching is usually of excellent quality and you'll learn in a community-type 
atmosphere. 



LIST OF FREE UNIVERSITIES 



. Alternative University-69 W. 14th St., New York, NY 10011 (catalogue on 
request) 

. Baltimore Free U-c/o Harry, 233 E. 25th St., Baltimore, Maryland 21218 
. Berkeley Free U-1703 Grove St., Berkeley, California 94709 

• Bowling Green Free U-c/o Student Council, University of Bowling Green, 
Bowling Green Ohio 43402 

• Colorado State Free U-Box 12-Fraisen, Colorado State College, Greeley, 
Colorado 80631 

. Detroit Area Free U-Student Union, 4001 W. McNichols Rd., Detroit, 
Michigan 48221 

• Detroit Area Free U-343 University Center, Wayne State University, 
Detroit, Mich. 

• Georgetown Free U-Loyola Bldg., 28, Georgetown University Washington 
D.C. 20007 

• Golden Gate Free U-2120 Market St., Rm. 206, San Francisco, California 
94114 

• Heliotrope-2201 Filbert, San Francisco, California 94118 

• Illinois Free U-298A lllini Union, University of Illinois, Champaign, Illinois 
61820 

. Kansas Free U-107 W. 7th St., Lawrence, Kansas 66044 

• Knox College Free U-Galesbury, Illinois 60401 

• Madison Free U-c/o P. Carroll, 1205 Shorewood Blvd., Madison, 
Wisconsin 53705 

• Metropolitan State Free U-Associated Students, 1345 Banrock St., 
Denver, Colorado 80204 

• Michigan State Free U-Associated Students, Student Service Bldg., 
Michigan State College, East Lansing, Michigan 48823 

• Mid-Peninsula Free U-1060 El Camino Real, Menlo Park, California 94015 

• Minnesota Free U-1817 S. 3rd St., Minneapolis, Minnesota 55404 

• Monterey Peninsula Free U-2120 Etna Place, Monterey, California New 
Free U-Box ALL 303, Santa Barbara, California 93107 

. Northwest Free U-Box 1255, Bellingham, Washington 98225 

• Ohio-Wesleyan Free U-Box 47-Welsh Hall, Ohio Wesleyan University, 
Delevan, Ohio 43015 

. Pittsburgh Free U-4401 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 

Rutgers Free U-Rutgers College, Student Center, 1 Lincoln Ave., Newark, 
NJ 07102 

• St. Louis Free U-c/o Student Congress, 3rd floor BMC, St. Louis 
University, St. Louis, Missouri 63103 

• San Luis Obispo Free U-Box 1305, San Luis Obispo, California 94301 
. Santa Cruz Free U-604 River St., Santa Cruz, California 95060 

. Seattle Free U-4144 1 / 2 University Way NE, Seattle, Washington 98105 

• Southern Illinois Free U-Carbondale, Illinois 62901 

. Valley Free U-2045 N. Wishon Ave., Fresno, California 93704 

• Washington Area Free U-5519 Prospect Place, Chevy Chase, Maryland 
20015 and 1854 Park Rd. NW, Washington, D.C. 20010 



• Wayne-Locke Free U-Student Congress, University of Texas, Arlington, 
Texas 76010 

And a complete list of experimental schools, free universities, free schools, can 
be obtained by sending one dollar to ALTERNATIVES! 1526 Gravenstein 
Highway N., Sebastopol, California 97452, and requesting the Directory of Free 
Schools. 

7. FREE MEDICAL CARE 

Due to the efforts of the Medical Committee for Human Rights, the Student 
Health Organization and other progressive elements among younger doctors and 
nurses. Free People's Clinics have been happening in every major city. They 
usually operate out of store fronts and are staffed with volunteer help. An 
average clinic can handle fifty patients a day. 

If you've had an accident or have an acute illness, even a bad cold, check into 
the emergency room of any hospital. Given them a sob story complete with 
phony name and address. After treatment they present you with a slip and direct 
you to the cashier. Just walk on by, as the song suggests. A good decoy is to ask 
for the washroom. After waiting there a few moments, split. If you're caught 
sneaking out, tell them you ran out of the house without your wallet. Ask them to 
bill you at your phony address. This billing procedure works in both hospital 
emergency rooms and clinics. You can keep going back for repeated visits up to 
three months before the cashier's office tells the doctor about your fractured 
payments. 

You can get speedy medical advice and avoid emergency room delays by calling 
the hospital, asking for the emergency unit and speaking directly to the doctor 
over the phone. Older doctors frown on this procedure since they cannot extort 
their usual exorbitant fee over the phone. Younger ones generally do not share 
this hang-up. 

Cities usually have free clinics for a variety of special ailments. Tuberculosis 
Clinics, Venereal Disease Clinics, and Free Shot Clinics (yellow fever, polio, 
tetanus, etc.) are some of the more common. A directory of these clinics and 
other free health services the local community provides can be obtained by 
writing your Chamber of Commerce or local Health Department. 

Most universities have clinics connected with their dental, optometry or other 
specialized medical schools. If not for free, then certainly for very low rates, you 
can get dental work repaired, eyeglasses fitted and treatment of other specific 
health needs. 

Free psychiatric treatment can often be gotten at the out-patient department of 
any mental hospital. Admission into these hospitals is free, but a real bummer. 



Use them as a last resort only. Some cities have a suicide prevention center and 
if you are desperate and need help, call them. Your best choice in a psychiatric 
emergency is to go to a large general hospital, find the emergency unit and ask 
to see the psychiatrist on duty. 

BIRTH CONTROL CLINICS 

Planned Parenthood and the Family Planning Association staff numerous free 
birth control clinics throughout the country. They provide such services as sex 
education, examinations, Pap smear and birth control information and devices. 
The devices include pills, a diaphragm, or IUD (intra-uterine device) which they 
will insert. If you are unmarried and under 18, you might have to talk to a social 
worker, but it's no sweat because anybody gets contraceptive devices that wants 
them. Call up and ask them to send you their booklets on the different methods 
of birth control available. 

If you would rather go to a private doctor, try to find out from a friend the name of 
a hip gynecologist, who is sympathetic to the fact that you're low on bread. 
Otherwise one visit could cost $25.00 or more. 

Before deciding on a contraceptive, you should be hip to some general 
information. There has been much research on the pill, and during the past 10 
years it has proven its effectiveness, if not is safety. The two most famous name 
brands are Ortho-Novum and Envoid. They all require a doctor's prescription. 
Different type pills are accompanied by slightly different instructions, so read the 
directions carefully. In many women, the pills produce side effects such as weight 
increase, dizziness or nausea. Sometimes the pill affects your vision and more 
often your mood. Some women with specialized blood diseases are advised not 
to use them, but in general, women have little or no trouble. Different brand 
names have different hormonal balances (progesterone-estrogen). If you get 
uncomfortable side effects, insist that your doctor switch your brand. If you stop 
the pill method for any reason and don't want to get pregnant, be very careful to 
use another means right away. 

Another contraceptive device becoming more popular is the IUD, or the loop. It is 
a small plastic or stainless steel irregularly-shaped spring that the doctor inserts 
inside the opening of the uterus. The insertion is not without pain, but it's safe if 
done by a physician, and it's second only to the pill in prevention of pregnancy. 
Once it's in place, you can forget about it for a few years or until you wish to get 
pregnant. Doctors are reluctant to prescribe them for women who have not borne 
children or had an abortion, because of the intense pain that accompanies 
insertion. But if you can stand the pain associated with three to four uterine 
contractions, you should push the doctor for this method. Inserting it during the 
last day of your period will make it easier. 



The diaphragm is a round piece of flexible rubber about 2 inches in diameter with 
a hard rubber rim on the outside. It used to be inserted just before the sex act, 
but hip doctors now recommend that it be worn continuously and taken out every 
few days for washing and also during the menstrual period. It is most effective 
when used with a sperm-killing jelly or cream. A doctor will fit you for a proper 
size diaphragm. 

The next best method is the foams that you insert twenty minutes before fucking. 
The best foams available are Delfen and Emko. They have the advantage of 
being nonprescription items so you can rush into any drug store and pick up a 
dispenser when the spirit moves you. Follow the directions carefully. 
Unfortunately, these foams taste terrible and are not available in flavors. It just 
shows you how far science has to go. 

Another device is the prophylactic, or rubber as it is called. This is the only device 
available to men. It is a thin rubber sheath that fits over the penis. Because they 
are subject to breaking and sliding off, their effectiveness is not super great. If 
you are forced to use them, the best available are lubricated sheepskins with a 
reservoir tip. 

The rhythm method or Vatican roulette as it is called by hip Catholics, is a waste 
unless you are ready to surround yourself with thermometers, graphs and charts. 
You also have to limit your fucking to prescribed days. Even with all these 
precautions, women have often gotten pregnant using the rhythm method. 

The oldest and least effective method is simply for the male to pull out just before 
he comes. There are billions of sperm cells in each ejaculation and only one is 
needed to fertilize the woman's egg and cause a pregnancy. Most of the sperm is 
in the first squirt, so you had better be quick if you employ this technique. 

If the woman misses her period she shouldn't panic. It might be delayed because 
of emotional reasons. Just wait two weeks before going to a doctor or clinic for a 
pregnancy test. When you go, be sure to bring your first morning urine specimen. 

ABORTIONS 

The best way to find out about abortions is to contact your local woman's 
liberation organization through your underground newspaper or radio station. 
Some Family Planning Clinics and even some liberal churches set up abortions, 
but these might run as high as $700. Underground newspapers often have ads 
that read "Any girl in trouble call - -," or something similar. The usual rate for an 
abortion is about $500 and it's awful hard to bargain when you need one badly. 
Only go to a physician who is practicing or might have just lost his license. Forget 
the stereotype image of these doctors as they are performing a vital service. 
Friends who have had an abortion can usually recommend a good doctor and fill 
you in on what's going to happen. 



Abortions are very minor operations if done correctly. They can be done almost 
any time, but after three months, it's no longer so casual and more surgical skill is 
required. Start making plans as soon as you find out. The sooner the better, in 
terms of the operation. 

Get a pregnancy test at a clinic. If it is positive and you want an abortion, start 
that day to make plans. If you get negative results from the test and still miss 
your period, have a gynecologist perform an examination if you are still worried. 

If you cannot arrange an abortion through woman's liberation, Family Planning, a 
sympathetic clergyman or a friend who has had one, search out a liberal hospital 
and talk to one of their social workers. Almost all hospitals perform "therapeutic" 
abortions. Tell a sob story about the desertion of your boy friend or that you take 
LSD every day or that defects run in your family. Act mentally disturbed. If you 
qualify, you can get an abortion that will be free under Medicaid or other welfare 
medical plans. The safest form of abortion is the vacuum-curettage method, but 
not all doctors are hip to it. It is safer and quicker with less chance of 
complications than the old-fashioned scrape method. 

Many states have recently passed liberalized abortion laws, such as New York* 
(by far the most extensive), Hawaii and Maryland, due to the continuing pressure 
of radical women. The battle for abortion and certainly for free abortion is far from 
over even in the states with liberal laws. They are far too expensive for the ten to 
twenty minute minor operation involved and the red tape is horrendous. Free 
abortions must be look-on as a fundamental right, not a sneaky, messy trauma. 

*There is a residence requirement for New York but using a friend's New York 
address at the hospital will be good enough. The procedure takes only a few 
days and costs between $200 and $500, depending on the place. The best 
advice is to call one of the New York Abortion Referral Services or Birth Control 
Groups listed in the New York Directory section. 

DISEASES TREATED FREE 

Syph and Clap (syphilis and gonorrhea) are two diseases that they are easy to 
pick up. They come from balling. Anyone who claims they got it from sitting on a 
toilet seat must have a fondness for weird positions. 

Both men and women are subject to the diseases. Using a prophylactic usually 
will prevent the spreading of venereal disease, but you should really seek to have 
it cured. Syphilis usually begins with an infection which may look like a cold sore 
or pimple around the sex organ. There is no pain associated with the lesions. 
Soon the sore disappears even without treatment. This is often followed by a 
period of rashes on the body (especially the palms of the hands) and 
inflammation of the mouth and throat. These symptoms also disappear without 
treatment. It must be understood, however, that even if these symptoms 



disappear, the disease still remains if left untreated. It can cause serious trouble 
such as heart disease, blindness, insanity and paralysis. Also, it can fuck up any 
kids you might produce and is easily passed on to anyone you ball. 

Gonorrhea (clap) is more common than syphilis. Its first signs are a discharge 
from your sex organ that is painful. Like syphilis, it affects both men and women, 
but is often unnoticed in women. There is usually itching and burning associated 
with the affected area. It can leave you sterile if left untreated. 

Both these venereal diseases can be treated in a short time with attention. Avail 
yourself of the free V.D. clinics in every town. Follow the doctor's instructions to 
the letter and try to let the other people you've had sexual contact with know you 
hadVD. 

There are other fungus diseases that resemble syphilis or gonorrhea, but are 
relatively harmless. Check out every infection in your crotch area, especially 
those with open sores or an unusual discharge and you'll be safe. 

Crabs are not harmful, but they can make you scratch your crotch for hours on 
end. They are also highly transmittable by balling. Actually they are a form of 
body lice and easy to cure. Go to your local druggist and ask him for the best 
remedy available. He'll give you one of several lotions and instructions for proper 
use. We recommend Kwell. 

A common disease in the hip community is hepatitis. There are two kinds. One 
you get from sticking dirty needles in your arm (serum hepatitis) and the other 
more common strain from eating infected food or having intimate contact with an 
infected carrier (infectious hepatitis). The symptoms for both are identical; 
yellowish skin and eyes, dark piss and light crap, loss of appetite and total 
listlessness. Hep is a very dangerous disease that can cause a number of 
permanent conditions, including death, which is extremely permanent. It should 
be treated by a doctor, often in a hospital. 




STRIKE! STRIKE! STRIKE! 



FREE COMMUNICATION 



If you don't like the news, why not go out and make your own? Creating free 
media depends to a large extent on your imagination and ability to follow through 
on ideas. The average Amerikan is exposed to over 1,600 commercials each 
day. Billboards, glossy ads and television spots make up much of the word 
environment they live in. To crack through the word mush means creating new 
forms of free communication. Advertisements for revolution are important in 
helping to educate and mold the milieu of people you wish to win over. 

Guerrilla theater events are always good news items and if done right, people will 
remember them forever. Throwing out money at the Stock Exchange or dumping 
soot on executives at Con Edison or blowing up the policeman statue in Chicago 
immediately conveys an easily understood message by using the technique of 
creative disruption. Recently to dramatize the illegal invasion of Cambodia, 400 
Yippies stormed across the Canadian border in an invasion of the United States. 
They threw paint on store windows and physically attacked residents of Blair, 
Washington. A group of Vietnam veterans marched in battle gear from Trenton to 
Valley Forge. Along the way they performed mock attacks on civilians the way 
they were trained to do in Southeast Asia. 

Dying all the outdoor fountains red and then sending a message to the 
newspaper explaining why you did it, dramatizes the idea that blood is being 
shed needlessly in imperialist wars. A special metallic bonding glue available 
from Eastman-Kodak will form a permanent bond in only 45 seconds. Gluing up 
locks of all the office buildings in your town is a great way to dramatize the fact 
that our brothers and sisters are being jailed all the time. Then, of course, there 
are always explosives which dramatically make your point and then some. 



PRESS CONFERENCES 



Another way of using the news to advertise the revolution and make propaganda 
is to call a press, conference. Get an appropriate place that has some 
relationship to the content of your message. Send out announcements to as 
many members of the press as you can. If you do not have a press list, you can 
make one up by looking through the Yellow Pages under Newspapers, Radio 
Stations, Television Stations, Magazines and Wire Services. Check out your list 
with other groups and pick up names of reporters who attend movement press 
conferences. Address a special invitation to them as well as one to their 
newspaper. Address the announcements to "City Desk" or '"News Department." 
Schedule the press conference for about 1 1 :00 A.M. as this allows the reporters 
to file the story in time for the evening newscast or papers. On the day of the 
scheduled conference, call the important city desks or reporters about 9:00 A.M. 
and remind them to come. 



Everything about a successful press conference must be dramatic, from the 
announcements and phone calls to the statements themselves. Nothing creates 
a worse image than four or five men in business suits sitting behind a table and 
talking in a calm manner at a fashionable hotel. Constantly seek to have every 
detail of the press conference differ in style as well as content from the 
conferences of people in power. Make use of music and visual effects. Don't 
stiffen up before the press. Make the statement as short and to the point as 
possible. Don't read from notes, look directly into the camera. The usual 
television spot is one minute and twenty seconds. The cameras start buzzing on 
your opening statement and often run out of film before you finish. So make it 
brief and action packed. The question period should be even more dramatic. Use 
the questioner's first name when answering a question. This adds an air of 
informality and networks are more apt to use an answer directed personally to 
one of their newsmen. Express your emotional feelings. Be funny, get angry, be 
sad or ecstatic. If you cannot convey that you are deeply excited or troubled or 
outraged about what you are saying, how do you expect it of others who are 
watching a little image box in their living room? Remember, you are advertising a 
new way of life to people. Watch TV commercials. See how they are able to 
convey everything they need to be effective in such a short time and limited 
space. At the same tune you're mocking the shit they are pushing, steal their 
techniques. 

At rock concerts, during intermission or at the end of the performance, fight your 
way to the stage. 

COMMUNICATION 

Announce that if the electricity is cut off the walls will be torn down. This 
galvanizes the audience and makes the owners of the hall the villains if they fuck 
around. Lay out a short exciting rap on what's coming down. Focus on a call 
around one action. Sometimes it might be good to engage rock groups in 
dialogues about their commitment to the revolution. Interrupting the concert is 
frowned upon since it is only spitting in the faces of the people you are trying to 
reach. Use the Culture as ocean to swim in. Treat it with care. 

Sandwich boards and hand-carried signs are effective advertisements. You can 
stand on a busy corner and hold up a sign saying "Apartment Needed," "Free 
Angela," "Smash the State" or other slogans. They can be written on dollar bills, 
envelopes that are being mailed and other items that are passed from person to 
person. 

Take a flashlight with a large face to movie theaters and other dark public 
gathering places. Cut the word "STRIKE" or "REVOLT" or "YIPPIE" out of dark 
cellophane. Paste the stencil over the flashlight, thus allowing you to project the 
word on a distant wall. 



There are a number of all night call-in shows that have a huge audience. If you 
call with what the moderator considers "exciting controversy," he may give you a 
special number so you won't have to compete in the switchboard roller-derby. It 
often can take hours before you get through to these shows. Here's a trick that 
will help you out if the switchboard is jammed. The call-in shows have a series of 
hones so that when one is busy the next will take the call. Usually the numbers 
run in sequence. Say a station gives out PL 5-8640, as the number to call. That 
means it also uses PL 5-8641, PL 5-8642 and so on. If you get a busy signal, 
hang up and try calling PL S-8647 say. This trick works in a variety of situations 
where you want to get a call through a busy switchboard. Remember it for airline 
and bus information. 

WALL PAINTING 

One of the best forms of free communication is painting messages on a blank 
wall. The message must be short and bold. You want to be able to paint it on 
before the pigs come and yet have it large enough so that people can see it at a 
distance. Cans of spray paint that you can pick up at any hardware store work 
best. Pick spots that have lot of traffic. Exclamation points are good for 
emphasis. If you are writing the same message, make a stencil. You can make a 
stencil that says WAR and spray it on with white paint under the word "STOP" on 
stop signs. You can stencil a five-pointed star and using yellow paint, spray it on 
the dividing line between the red and blue on all post office boxes. This simulates 
the flag of the National Liberation Front of Vietnam. You can stencil a marijuana 
leaf and using green paint, spray it over cigarette and whisky billboards on buses 
and subways. The women's liberation sign with red paint is good for sexist ads. 
Sometimes you will wish to exhibit great daring in your choice of locations. When 
the Vietnamese hero Nguyen Van Troi was executed, the Viet Cong put up a 
poster the next day on the exact spot inside the highest security prison in the 
country. 

Wall postering allows you to get more information before the public than a quickly 
scribbled slogan. Make sure the surface is smooth or finely porous. Smear the 
back of the poster with condensed milk, spread on with a brush, sponge, rag or 
your hands. Condensed milk dries very fast and hard. Also smear some on the 
front once the poster is up to give protection against the weather and busy 
fingers that like to pull at corners. Wallpaper pastes also work quickly and 
efficiently. It's best to work both painting and postering at night with a look-out. 
This way you can work the best spots without being harassed by the pig patrol, 
which is usually unappreciative of Great Art. 



USE OF THE FLAG 



The generally agreed upon flag of our nation is black with a red, five pointed star 
behind a green marijuana leaf in the center. It is used by groups that understand 
the correct use of culture and symbolism in a revolutionary struggle. When 
displayed, it immediately increases the feelings of solidarity between our brothers 
and sisters. High school kids have had great fights over which flag to salute in 
school. A sign of any liberated zone is the flag being flown. Rock concerts and 
festivals have their generally apolitical character instantly changed when the flag 
is displayed. The political theoreticians who do not recognize the flag and the 
importance of the culture it represents are ostriches who are ignorant of basic 
human nature. Throughout history people have fought for religion, life-style, land, 
a flag (nation), because they were ordered to, for fortune, because they were 
attacked or for the hell of it. If you don't think the flag is important, ask the 
hardhats. 

RADIO 

Want to construct your own neighborhood radio station? You can get a carrier- 
current transmitter designed by a group of brothers and sisters called Radio Free 
People. No FCC license is required for the range is less than 1/2 mile. The small 
transistorized units plug into any wall outlet. Write Radio Free People, 133 
Mercer St., New York, New York 10012 for more details. For further information 
see the chapter on Guerrilla Broadcasting later in the book. 



FREE TELEPHONES 



Ripping off the phone company is so common that Bell Telephone has a special 
security division that tries to stay just a little ahead of the average free-loader. 
Many great devices like the coat hanger release switch have been scrapped 
because of changes in the phone box. Even the credit card fake-out is doomed to 
oblivion as the company switches to more computerized techniques. In our 
opinion, as long as there is a phone company, and as long as there are outlaws, 
nobody need ever pay for a call. In 1969 alone the phone company estimated 
that over 10 million dollars worth of free calls were placed from New York City. 
Nothing, however, compares with the rip-off of the people by the phone 
company. In that same year, American Telephone and Telegraph made a profit 
of 8.6 billion dollars! AT&T, like all public utilities, passes itself off as a service 
owned by the people, while in actuality nothing could be further from the truth. 
Only a small percentage of the public owns stock in these companies and a tiny 
elite clique makes all the policy decisions. Ripping-off the phone company is an 
act of revolutionary love, so help spread the word. 

PAY PHONES 

You can make a local 10 cent call for 2 cents by spitting on the pennies and 
dropping them in the nickel slot. As soon as they are about to hit the trigger 
mechanism, bang the coin-return button. Another way is to spin the pennies 
counter-clockwise into the nickel slot. Hold the penny in the slot with your finger 
and snap it spinning with a key or other flat object. Both systems take a certain 
knack, but once you've perfected the technique, you'll always have it in your 
survival kit. 

If two cents is too much, how about a call for 1 penny? Cut a 1/4 strip off the 
telephone book cover. Insert the cardboard strip into the dime slot as far as it will 
go. Drop a penny in the nickel slot until it catches in the mechanism (spinning will 
help). Then slowly pull the strip out until you hear the dial tone. 

A number 14 brass washer with a small piece of scotch tape over one side of the 
hole will not only get a free call, but works in about any vending machine that 
takes dimes. You can get a box of thousands for about a dollar at any hardware 
store. You should always have a box around for phones, laundromats, parking 
meters and drink machines. 

Bend a bobby pin after removing the plastic from the tips and jab it down into the 
transmitter (mouthpiece). When it presses against the metal diaphragm, rub it on 
a metal wall or pipe to ground it. When you've made contact you'll hear the dial 
tone. If the phone uses old-fashioned rubber black tubing to enclose the wires 
running from the headset to the box, you can insert a metal tack through the 



tubing, wiggle it around a little until it makes contact with the bare wires and 
touch the tack to a nearby metal object for grounding. 

Put a dime in the phone, dial the operator and tell her you have ten cents credit. 
She'll return your dime and get your call for free. If she asks why, say you made 
a call on another pay phone, lost the money, and the operator told you to switch 
phones and call the credit operator. 

This same method works for long distance calls. Call the operator and find out 
the rate for your call. Hang up and call another operator telling her you just dialed 
San Francisco direct, got a wrong number and lost $.95 or whatever it is. She will 
get your call free of charge. 

If there are two pay phones next to each other, you can call long distance on one 
and put the coins in the other. When the operator cuts in and asks you to deposit 
money, drop the coins into the one you are not using, but hold the receiver up to 
the slots so the operator can hear the bells ring. When you've finished, you can 
simply press the return button on the phone with the coins in it and out they 
come. If you have a good tape recorder you can record the sounds of a quarter, 
dime and nickel going into a pay phone and play them for the operator in various 
combinations when she asks for the money. Turn the volume up as loud as you 
can get it. 

You can make a long distance call and charge it to a phone number. Simply tell 
the operator you want to bill the call to your home phone because you don't have 
the correct change. Tell her there is no one there now to verify the call, but you 
will be home in an hour and she can call you then if there is any question. Make 
sure the exchange goes with the area you say it does. 

Always have a number of made-up credit card numbers. The code letter for 1970 
is S, then seven digits of the phone number and a three digit district number (not 
the same as area code). The district number should be under 599. Example: S- 
573-2100-421 or S-537-3402-035. Look up the phone numbers for your area by 
simply requesting a credit card for your home phone which is very easy to get 
and then using the last three numbers with another phone number. Usually 
making up exotic numbers from far away places will work quite well as it would 
be impossible for an operator to spot a phony number in the short time she has 
to check her list. 

We advise against making phony credit card calls on a home phone. We have 
seen a gadget that you install between the wall socket and the cord which not 
only allows you to receive all the calls you want for free, but eliminates the most 
common form of electronic bugging. They are being manufactured and sold for 
fifty dollars by a disgruntled telephone engineer in Massachusetts. Unfortunately 
you are going to have to find him on your own or duplicate his efforts, for he has 
sworn us to secrecy. If someone does, however, offer you such a device, it 



probably does work. Test it by installing it and having someone call you from a 
pay phone. If it's working, the person should get their dime back at the end of the 
call. 

Actually if you know the slightest information about wiring, you can have your 
present phone disconnected on the excuse that you'll be leaving town for a few 
months and then connect the wires into the main trunk lines on your own. 
Extensions can easily be attached to your main line without the phone company 
knowing about it. 

You can make all the free long distance calls you want by calling your party 
collect at a pay phone. Just have your friend go to a prearranged phone booth at 
a prearranged time. This can be done on the spot by having the friend call you 
person to person. Say you're not in, but ask for the number calling you since 
you'll be "back" in five minutes. Once you get the number simply hang up, wait a 
moment and call back your friend collect. The call has to be out of the state to 
work, since operators are familiar with the special extension numbers assigned to 
pay phones for her area and possibly for nearby areas as well. If she asks you if 
it is a pay phone say no. If she finds out during the call (which rarely happens) 
and informs you of this, simply say you didn't expect the party to have a pay 
phone in his house and accept the charges. We have never heard of this 
happening though. The trick of calling person-to-person collect should always be 
used when calling long distance on home-to-home phones also. You can hear 
the voice of your friend saying that he'll be back in a few minutes. Simply hang 
up, wait a moment and call station to station, thereby getting a person-to-person 
call without the extra charges which can be considerable on a long call during 
business hours. 

If you plan to stay at your present address for only a few more months, stop 
paying the bill and call like crazy. After a month you get the regular bill which you 
avoid paying. Another month goes by and the next bill comes with last month's 
balance added to it. Shortly thereafter you get a note advising you that your 
service will be terminated in ten days if you don't pay the bill. Wait a few days 
and send them a five or ten dollar money order with a note saying you've had an 
accident and are pressed for funds because of large medical bills, but you'll send 
them the balance as soon as you are up and around again. That will hold them 
for another month. In all, you can stretch it out for four or five months with a 
variety of excuses and small payments. This also works with the gas and electric 
companies and with any department stores you conned into letting you charge. 

You can get the service deposit reduced to half of the normal rate if you are a 
student or have other special qualifications. Surprisingly, these rates and 
discounts vary from area to area, so check around before you go into the 
business office for your phone. There is an incredible 50 cents charge per month 
for not having your phone listed. If you want an unlisted phone, you can avoid 



this fee by having the phone listed in a fictitious name, even if the bill is sent to 
you. Just say you want your roommate's name listed instead of your own. 




FREE PLAY 



MOVIES AND CONCERTS 

There are many ways to sneak into theaters, concerts, stadiums and other 
entertainment houses. All these places have numerous fire exits with push-bar 
doors that open easily from the inside. Arrive early with a group of friends, after 
casing the joint and selecting the most convenient exit. Pay for one person to get 
in. When he does he simply opens the designated exit door when the ushers are 
out of the area and everyone rushes inside. 

For theatrical chains in large cities, call their home office and ask to speak to the 
vice-president in charge of publicity, sales, or personnel. Ask what his name is so 
you'll know who you're talking to. When you get the information you want, hang 
up. Now you have the name of a high official in the company. Compile a short list 
of officials in the various film, theater and sporting event companies. Next all the 
various theaters and do the same thing for the theater managers. Once you have 
the two lists you are ready to proceed. Call the theater you want to attend. When 

someone answers say you're Mr. from the home office calling Mr. 

(manager's name) and you'd like to have two passes O.K'd for two 

important people from out of town. Invariably she'll just ask their names or tell 
them to mention your name at the box office. Not only will you get in free, but you 
can avoid waiting in line with this fake-out. 

In Los Angeles and New York, the studios hold pre-release screenings for all 
movies. If you know roughly when a movie is about to come out, call the publicity 
department of the studio producing the film and say you're the critic for a 
newspaper or magazine (give the name) and ask them when you can screen the 
film. They'll give you the time and place of various screenings. When you go, ask 
them to put you on their list and you'll get notices of all future screenings. 

One of our favorite ways to sneak into a theater with continuously running shows 
is the following. Arrive just as the show is emptying out and join the line leaving 
the theater. Exclaiming, "Oh, my gosh!" you slap your forehead, turn around and 
return, tell the usher you left your hat, pocketbook, etc. inside. Once you're inside 
the theater, just swipe some popcorn and wait for the next show. 

RECORDS AND BOOKS 

If you have access to a few addresses, you can get all kinds of records and 
books from clubs on introductory offers. Since the cards you mail back are not 



signed there is no legal way you can be held for the bill. You get all sorts of 
threatening mail, which, by the way, also comes free. 

If you have a friend who is a member of a record club, ask him to submit your 
name as a free member. He gets 4 free records for getting you signed up. A soon 
as you get the letter saying how lucky you are to be a member, quit. Your friend's 
free records have already been shipped. We used to have at least 10 different 
names and addresses working on all the record and book companies. Every 
other day we would ride around collecting the big packages. To cap it off, we 
opened a credit account at a large department store and used to return most of 
the records and books to the store saying that they were gifts and we wanted 
something else. Since we had an account at the store, they always took the 
merchandise and gave credit for future purchases. 

You can always use the public libraries. Find out when they do their yearly 
housecleaning. Every library discards thousands of books on this day. Just show 
up and ask if you can take some. 

Almost anything you might want to know from plans for constructing a sundial to 
a complete blueprint for building a house may be obtained free from the 
Government Printing Office. Write: to Superintendent of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington D.C. 20402. Most publication are free. Those that are 
not are dirt cheap. Ask to be put on the list to receive the free biweekly list of 
Selected U.S. Government Publications. 

One of the best ways to receive records and books free is to invest twenty dollars 
and print up some stationery with an artistic logo for some non-existent 
publication. Write to all the public relations departments of record companies, 
publishing houses, and movie studios. Say you are a newspaper with a large 
youth readership and have regular reviews of books, or records, or movies, and 
would like to be placed on their mailing list. Say that you would be glad to send 
them any reviews of their records that appear in the paper. That adds a note of 
authenticity to the letter. After a month or so you'll be receiving more records and 
books than you can use. 

If you really want a book badly enough, follow the title of this one-Dig! 




FREE MONEY 



No book on survival should fail to give you some good tips on how to rip-off 
bread. Really horning in on this chapter will put you on Free-loader Street life, 
'cause with all the money in Amerika, the only thing you'll have trouble getting is 
poor. 

WELFARE 

It's easy to get on welfare that anyone who is broke and doesn't have a regular 
relief check coming in is nothing but a goddamn lazy bum! Each state has a 
different set up. The racist penny-pinchers of Mississippi dole out only $8.00 a 
month. New York dishes ont the most with monthly payments up to $120.00. The 
Amerikan Public Welfare Association publishes a book called The Public Welfare 
Directory with information on exactly what each welfare agency provides and 
how you go about qualifying. You can read the directory at any public library to 
find out all you can about how your local office operates. 

When you've discovered everything you need to know, head on down to the 
Welfare Department in your grubbiest clothes. Not sleeping the night before 
helps. The receptionist will assign an "intaker" to interview you. After a long wait, 
you'll be directed to a desk. The intaker raps to you for a while, generally showing 
sympathy for your plight and turns you over to the caseworker who will make the 
final and ultimate assessment. 

Have your heaviest story ready to ooze out. If you have no physical disabilities, 
lay down a "mentally deranged" rap. Getting medical papers saying you have any 
long-term illness or defect helps a lot. Tell the caseworker you get dizzy spells on 
the job and faint in the street. Keep bobbing your head, yawning, or scratching. 



Tell him that you have tried to commit suicide recently because you just can't 
make it in a world that has forgotten how to love. Don't lay it on too obviously. 
Wait till he "pries" some of the details from you. This makes the story even more 
convincing. Many welfare workers are young and hip. The image you are working 
on is that of a warm, sensitive kid victimized by brutal parents and a cold ruthless 
society. Tell them you held off coming for months because you wanted to 
maintain some self-respect even though have been walking the streets broke and 
hungry. If you are a woman tell him you were recently raped. In sexist Amerika, 
this will probably be true. 

After about an hour or so of this soap-opera stuff, you'll be ready to get your first 
check. From then on it's a monthly check, complete medical care for free and all 
sorts of other outasight benefits. Occasionally the caseworker will drop by your 
pad or ask you down to the office to see how you're coming along, but with your 
condition, things don't look so good. Don't abandon hope though. Hope always 
helps fill in a caseworker's report. 

The real trick is to parlay welfare payments in a few different states. Work out an 
exchange system with a buddy and mail each other the checks when they come 
in. If the caseworker comes by, your roommate can say you went to find a job or 
enrolled in a class. We know cats who have parlayed welfare payments up to six 
hundred dollars a month. 

UNEMPLOYMENT 

Every outlaw should learn everything there is to know about the rules governing 
unemployment insurance. As in the case of welfare rules, eligibility, and the size 
of payments differ from state to state. In New York, you are eligible for payments 
equivalent to half your weekly salary before taxes up to $65 per week, on the 
condition that you have worked for a minimum of twenty weeks during the year. 
Payments are somewhat lower in most other states. In order to collect, you must 
show you are actively searching for a job and keep a record of employers you 
contact. This can easily be fudged. Every time you're questioned about it, 
mention one or two companies. If your hair is long, you'll have no problem. Just 
say they won't hire you until you get a haircut. When this is the case, the 
unemployment office cannot cut off your payments or your hair. They also cannot 
make you accept a job you do not want. Tell them any job offer you get is not 
challenging enough for your talents. Unemployment can be collected for six 
months before payments are terminated. Twenty more weeks of slavery and you 
can go back to maintaining your dignity in the unemployment line. These job 
insurance payments cannot be taxed and since you are working so few weeks 
out of each year, your taxable income is at a minimum. Read all the fine print for 
tax form 1040 and discover all the deductible loopholes available to you. You 
should wind up paying no taxes at all or having all the taxes that were deducted 
from your pay reimbursed. Never turn over to the pig government any funds you 



can rip off. Remember, it isn't your government, so why submit to its taxation if 
you feel you do not have representation. 

PANHANDLING 

The practice of going up to folks and bumming money is a basic hustling art. If 
you are successful at panhandling, you'll be able to master all the skills in the 
book and then some. To be good at it requires a complete knowledge of what 
motivates people. Even if we don't need the bread, we panhandle on the streets 
in the same way doctors go back to medical school. It helps us stay in shape. 
Panhandling is illegal throughout Pig Empire, but it's one of those laws that is 
rarely enforced unless they want to "clean the area" of hippies. If you're in a 
strange locale, ask a fellow panhandler what the best places to work are without 
risking a bust. Do it in front of supermarkets, theaters, sporting events, hip dress 
shops and restaurants. College cafeterias are very good hunting grounds. 

When you're hustling, be assertive. Don't lean against the wall with your palm out 
mumbling "Spare some change?" Go up to people and stand directly in front of 
them so they have to look you in the eye and say no. Bum from guys with dates. 
Bum from motherly looking types. After a while you'll get a sense of the type of 
people you get results with. 

Theater can be real handy. The best actors get the most bread. Devising a street 
theater skit can help. A good prop is a charity canister. You can get them by 
going to the offices of a mainstream charity and signing up as a collector. Don't 
feel bad about ripping them off. Charities are the biggest swindle around. 80% or 
more of the funds raised by honky charities go to the organization itself. New 
fancy cars for the Red Cross, inflated salaries for the executives of the Cancer 
Fund, tax write-offs for Jerry Lewis. You get the picture. A good way to work this 
and keep your karma in shape is to turn over half to a revolutionary groups such 
as your local underground. Remember, fugitives from injustice depend on you to 
survive. Be a responsible member of our nation. Support the only war we have 
going! 

RIP-OFFS 

If you are closing out your checking account, overdraw your account by $10.00. 
The bank won't bother chasing you down for a lousy 10 bucks. 

Call the telephone operator from time to time and tell her you lost some change 
in a pay phone. They will mail you the cash. 

You can get $150 to $600 in advance by willing your body to a University medical 
school. They have you sign a lot of papers and put a tattoo on your foot. You can 
get the tattoo removed and sell your body to the folks across the street. The 
universities can be ripped off by enrolling, applying for a loan and bugging out 



after the loan comes through. This is a lot easier than you might imagine and you 
can hit them for up to $2,500 with a good enough story. 

Put a number 14 brass washer in a newspaper vending machine and take out all 
the papers. Stand around the corner or go into the local bar and sell them. You 
often get tipped. Don't do this with underground papers. Remember they're your 
brothers and sisters. 

The airlines will give you $250 for each piece of luggage you lose when flying. 
The following is a good way to lose your luggage. When you get off a plane, have 
a friend meet you at the gate. Give him your luggage claim stubs and arrange to 
meet at a washroom or restaurant. Your friend picks up the bags and takes them 
out of the baggage room. Before he leaves the airport, he turns over the stubs to 
you at your prearranged rendezvous. You casually wander over to the baggage 
department and search for your elusive luggage. When all the baggage has been 
claimed, file a complaint with the lost and found department. They'll have you fill 
out a form, explain that it probably got misplaced on another carrier and promise 
to send it to you as soon as it is located. In a month you'll receive a check for 
$250 per bag. Enjoy your flight. 

THE INTERNATIONAL YIPPIE CURRENCY EXCHANGE 

Every time you drop a coin into a slot, you are losing money needlessly. There is 
at least one foreign coin that is the same size or close enough that will do the 
trick for less than a penny. The following are some of the foreign currencies that 
will get you that Coke, call or subway ride. 

Quarter Size Coins 

. URUGUAYAN 10 CENTISIMO PIECE 

o works in many soda and candy machines, older telephones (3 slot 
types), toll machines, laundromats, parking meters, stamp 
machines, and restroom novelty machines. Works also in some 
electric cancerette machines but not most mechanical machines. 
. DANISH 5 ORE PIECE 

o works in 3 slot telephones, toll machines, laundromats, automats, 
some stamp machines, most novelty machines, and the Boston 
Subway. Does not work in soda or cancerette machines. 
. PERUVIAN 20 CENTAVO PIECES 

o works in new (one slot) telephone and some electric cancerette 
machines, but does not work as many places in the Uruguay, 
Danish and Peruvian coins. 
. ICELANDIC 5 AURAN PIECE 

o most effective quarter in the world, even works in change 

machines. Unfortunately, this coin is practically impossible to get 



outside of Iceland and even there, it is becoming difficult since the 
government is attempting to remove it from circulation. 

Dime Size Coins 

. MALAYSIAN PENNY 

o generally works in all dime slots, including old and new telephones, 
candy machines, soda machines, electric machines, stamp 
machines, parking meters, photocopy machines, and pay toilets. 
Does not work in some newer stamp dispensers, and some 
mechanical cancerette machines. 
. TRINIDAD PENNY 

o generally works the same as Malaysian Penny. 

New York Subway Tokens 

. DANISH 25 ORE PIECE 

o works in 95% of all subway turnstiles. A very safe coin to use since 
it will not jam the turnstile. It is 5/l000th of an inch bigger than a 
token. 

. PORTUGUESE 50 CENTAVO PIECE 

o the average Portuguese Centavo Piece is 2/1 000th of an inch 
smaller than a token. 
. JAMAICAN HALF PENNY, BAHAMA PENNY and AUSTRALIAN 
SCHILLING 

o these coins are 12/I000th to 15/1 000th of an inch smaller than 
token. They work in about 80% of all turnstiles. We have also had 
good success with FRENCH I FRANC PIECE (WWII issue), 
SPANISH 10 CENTAVO PIECE NICARAGUAN 25 CENTAVO 
PIECE. 

All of the coins listed have a currency value of a few cents, with most less than 
one penny. Foreign coins work more regularly than slugs and are non-magnetic, 
hence cannot be detected by "slug detector machines." Also unlike slugs, 
although they are illegal to use in machines, they are perfectly legal to possess 
and exchange. 

Large coin dealers and currency exchanges are generally uptight about handling 
cheap foreign coins in quantity since they don't make much profit and are subject 
to certain pressures in selling coins that are the same size as Amerikan coins or 
tokens. 

People planning trips to European or South American countries should bring 
back rolls of coins as souvenirs or for use in "coin jewelry." 



If you do not plan to travel, a small coin store which is cool about selling to the 
public is located on the Lower East Side at 191 East Third Street, New York City. 
When their phone works, the number is 475-9897. 

Washers are the most popular types of slugs. You can go to any hardware store 
and match them up with various coins. Sometimes you might have to put a small 
piece of scotch tape over one side of the hole to make it more effective. Each 
washer is identified by its material and number, i.e. No. 14 brass washer with 
scotch tape on one side is a perfect dime. When you get the ones you want, you 
can buy thousands for next to nothing (especially at industrial supply stores) and 
pass them out to our friends. 

Xerox copies of both sides of a dollar bill, carefully glued together, work in most 
machines that give you change for a dollar. Excuse us, there is a knock at the 
door. . .Fancy that! It's the Treasury Department. Wonder what they want? 




FREE DOPE 



BUYING, SELLING AND GIVING IT AWAY 



As you probably know, most dope is illegal, therefore some risks are always 
involved in buying and selling. "Eternal vigilance and constant mobility are the 
passwords of survival," said Che Guevara, and nowhere do they apply more than 
in the world of dope. If you ever have the slightest doubt about the person with 
whom you're dealing-DON'T. 

Buying 

In the purchasing of dope, arrests are not a problem unless you're the fall guy for 
a bust on the dealer. The major hazard is getting burned. Buy from a friend or a 
reputable dealer. If you have to do business with a stranger, be extra careful. 
Never front money. One of the burn artist's tricks is to take your money, tell you 
to wait and split with your dough. There are various side show gimmicks each 
burn artist works. The most common is to ask you to walk with them a few blocks 
and then stop in front of an apartment building. He then tells you the dope is 
upstairs and asks you to hand over the money in advance. He explains that his 
partner is the real uptight 'cause they were raided once and won't let anybody in 
the pad. He takes your dough and disappears inside the building. Out the back 
door or up to the roof and into his getaway helicopter. You are left on the 
sidewalk with anxious eyes and that "can this really be happening to me" feeling. 

Another burn method is to substitute oregano, parsley or catnip for pot, camel 
shit for hash, saccharin or plain pills for acid. If you got burned for heroin or 
speed, you're better off being taken, because these are body-fuck drugs that can 
mess you up badly. The people that deal them are total pigs and should be 
regarded as such. When you're buying from strangers, you have a right to 
sample the merchandise free unless it's coke. Check the weight of grass with a 
small pocket scale. Feel the texture and check out how well it has been cleaned 
of seeds and twigs. Smoke a joint that is rolled from the stuff you get. Don't 
accept the dealer's sample that he pulled out of his pocket. When you are buying 
a large amount of acid, pick a sample. You should never buy acid from a stranger 
as it is too easy a burn. 

If you buy cocaine, bring along a black light. Only the imparities glow under its 
fluorescence, thus giving you an idea of the quality of the coke. Make sure it's the 
real thing. Sniffing coke can perforate your nasal passages, so be super 
moderate. Too much will kill you. A little bit goes a long way. 

Selling 

Dealing, although dangerous, is a tax-free way of surviving even though it 
borders on work. The best way to start is to save up a little bread and buy a 
larger quantity than you usually get. Then deal out smaller amounts to your 
friends. The fewer strangers you deal with, the safer you are. The price of dope 
varies with the amount of stuff on the market in your area, the heat the narks are 
bringing down and the connections you have. A rough scale, say, for pot is $20 



an ounce, $125 a pound and $230 a kilo (2.2 pounds). The price per ounce 
decreases depending on the amount you get. It's true you make more profit 
selling by the ounces, but the hassle is greater and the more contacts you must 
make increases the risk. Screwing your customers will prove to be bad karma 
(unless you consider dying groovy), so stick to honest dealing. Never deal from 
your pad and avoid keeping your stash there. Get into searching out the best 
markets which are generally in California, given its close proximity to good ol' 
Mexico. Kansas is a big distribution center for Mexican grass, too. You can ship 
the stuff (safer than carrying) via air freight anywhere in the country for about $30 
a trunk. Keep the sending and receiving end looking straight. We have one friend 
who wears a priest's outfit to ship and receive dope. In fact, every time we see 
nuns or priests on the street, we assume they're outlaws just on their way to the 
next deal or bombing. For all we know, the church actually is nothing but a huge 
dope ring in drag. Anybody gotten high off communion wafers lately? 

When you talk about deals on the phone, be cool. Make references to theater 
tickets or subscriptions. Don't keep extensive notes on your activities and 
contacts. Use code names where you can. Never deal with two other people 
present. Only you and the buyer should be in the immediate vicinity. Narks make 
busts in pairs so one can be the arresting officer and the other can be a court 
witness. Dealing is a paradox of unloading a good amount of shit but not trying to 
move too fast; of making ne contacts but being careful of strangers; of dealing 
high quality and low prices; and of being simultaneously bold and cautious. If you 
get nabbed, get the best lawyer who specializes in dope busts. First offenders 
rarely end up serving time, but it's a different story for repeaters. Know how 
punitive the courts are and which judges and prosecutors can be bought off. 
Never deal in the month before an election. For complete information on how to 
avoid getting busted and what to do if busted, read The Drug Bust (listed in 
appendix). 

Giving It Away 

Giving dope away can be a real mind-blower. Every dealer should submit to 
voluntary taxation by the new Nation. If you are a conscientious dealer, you 
should be willing and eager to give a good hunk of your stash away at special 
events or to groups into free distribution. You should also be able to give bread to 
bust trusts set up to bail out heads unable to get up the ransom money the 
whisky lush courts demand. Many groups have done huge mailings of joints to all 
sorts of people. A group in New York mailed 30,000 to people in the phone book 
on one Valentine's Day. A group in Los Angeles placed over 2,000 joints in 
library books and then advised kids to smoke a book during National Library 
Week. Be cool about even giving stuff away since that counts as dealing in most 
states. John Sinclair, Chairman of the White Panther Party, is serving 9Y 2 to 10 
years for giving away two joints. 



GROW YOUR OWN 



Pot is a weed and as such grows in all climates under every kind of soil 
condition. We have seen acres and acres of grass growing in Kansas, Iowa and 
New Jersey. If you're not located next door to a large pot field growing in the wild, 
maybe you would have some success in growing your own. It's well worth it to try 
your potluck! 

The first thing is to start with a bunch of good-quality seeds from grass that you 
really dig. Select the largest seeds and place them between two heavy-duty 
napkins or ink blotters in a pan. Soak the napkins with water until completely 
saturated. Cover the top of the pan or place it in a dark closet for three days or 
until a sprout about a half inch long appears from most of the seeds. 

During this incubation period, you can prepare the seedling bed. Use a low 
wooden box such as a tomato flat and fill it with an inch of gravel. Fill the rest of 
the box with some soil mixed with a small amount of fertilizer. Moisten the soil 
until water seeps out the bottom of the box, then level the soil making a flat 
surface. With a pencil, punch holes two inches apart in straight rows. You can get 
about 2 dozen in a tomato flat. 

When the incubation period is over, take those seeds that have an adequate 
sprout and plant one in each hole. The sprout goes down and the seed part 
should be a little above ground. Tamp the soil firmly (do not pack) around each 
plant as you insert the sprouts. 

The seedlings should remain in their boxes in a sunny window until about mid- 
May. They should receive enough water during this period to keep the soil moist. 
By the time they are ready to go into the ground, the green plants should be 
about six to eight inches tall. 



If it is late winter or early spring and you have a plot of land that gets enough sun 
and is sheltered from nosy neighbors, you should definitely grow grass in the 
great outdoors. 

One idea is to plant sunflowers in your garden as these grow taller than the pot 
plants and camouflage them from view. The best idea is to find some little-used 
field and plant a section of it. 

Prepare the land the way you would for any garden vegetable. Dig up the ground 
with a pitchfork or heavy duty rake, removing rocks. Rake the plot level and 
punch holes in the soil about three inches deep and about two feet apart in the 
same way you did in the seedling boxes. Remove the young plants from the box, 
being careful not to disturb the roots and keeping as much soil intact as possible. 
Transplant each plant into one of the punched-out holes and firmly press the soil 
to hold it in place. When all the plants are in the ground, water the entire area. 
Tend them the way you would any other garden. They should reach a height of 
about six feet by the end of the summer and be ready to harvest. 

If you don't have access to a field, you can grow good stuff right in your own 
closet or garage using artificial lighting. Transplant the plants into larger wooden 
boxes or flower boxes. Be sure and cover the bottom of each box with a few 
inches of pebbles or broken pottery before you add the soil. This will insure 
proper drainage. Fertilize the soil according to the instructions on the box and 
punch out holes in much the same way you would do if you were growing 
outside. After the young plants have been transplanted and watered thoroughly, 
you will have to rig up a lighting system. Use blue light bulbs, which are available 
at hardware stores for the first thirty days. These insure a shorter, sturdier stalk. 
Leave the lights on 24 hours a day and place them about a foot above the tops of 
the plants. If the plants begin to feel brittle or turn yellow at the edges, then the 
temperature is too hot. Use less illumination or raise the height of the lamp if this 
occurs. 

After the first thirty days, change to red bulbs and cut down the lighting time to 16 
hours a day. After a week, reduce the time to 14 hours and then on the third 
week to 12 hours. Maintain this lighting period until the plants flower. The female 
plants have a larger and heavier flower structure and the males are somewhat 
skimpy. The female plant produces the stronger grass and the choicest parts are 
the top leaves including the flowers. 

Inside or outside, the plants will be best if allowed to reach maturity, although 
they are smokeable at any point along the way. When you want to harvest the 
crop, wet the soil and pull out the entire plant. If you want to separate the top 
leaves from the rest, you can do so and make two qualities of grass. In any 
event, let the plants dry in the sun for two weeks until they are thoroughly dried 



out. If you want to hurry the drying process, you can do it in an oven using a very 
low heat for about twenty minutes. After you've completed the drying, you can 
"cure"' the grass by putting the plants in plastic bags and sprinkling drops of 
wine, rum or plain booze on them. This greatly increases the potency. 

There are two other ways that we know work to increase the potency of grass 
you grow or buy. One consists of digging a hole and burying a stash of grass 
wrapped in a plastic bag. A few months in the ground will produce a mouldy 
grass that is far fuckin' out. A quick method is to get a hunk of dry ice, put it in a 
metal container or box with a tight lid (taping the lid airtight helps), and sprinkling 
the grass on top. Allow it to sit tightly covered for about three days until all the dry 
ice evaporates. 

ASSORTED FREEBIES 

LAUNDRY 

Wait in a laundromat. Tell someone with a light load that you'll watch the machine 
for them if you can stick your clothes in with theirs. 

PETS 

Your local ASPCA will give you a free dog, cat, bird or other pet. Have them 
inspect and inoculate the animal which they will do free of charge. You can get 
free or very cheap medical care for your pet at a school for veterinary medicine. 

Underground newspapers often carry a free-pets column in the back pages. 
Snakes can be caught in any wooded area and they make great pets. You can 
collect insects pretty easy. Ants are unbelievable to watch. You can make a 
simple 3/4 inch wide glass case about a foot high, fill it with sand and start an ant 
colony. A library book will tell you how to care for them. 

Every year the National Park Service gives away surplus elks in order to keep 
the herds under its jurisdiction from outgrowing the amount of available land for 
grazing. Write to: Superintendent, Yellowstone National Park, Yellowstone, 
Wyoming 83020. You must be prepared to pay the freight charges for shipping 
the animal and guarantee that you can provide enough grazing land to keep the 
big fellow happy. 

Under the same arrangement the government will send you a Free Buffalo. Write 
to: Office of Information, Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20420. So 
many people have written them recently demanding their Free Buffalo, that they 
called a press conference to publicly attack the Yippies for creating chaos in the 
government. Don't take any buffalo shit from these petty bureaucrats, demand 
the real thing. Demand your Free Buffalo. 



Oh wow! Where 'd you get that cute little free buffalo? 



You can get a free 16mm movie about parakeets called "More Fun with 
Parakeets," by writing to: R.T. French Co., 9068 Mustard St., Rochester, New 
York 14609. This great film won an Academy Award for best picture of 1793. 

POSTERS 



Beautiful wall posters are available by writing to the National Tourist Agencies of 
various countries. Most are located between 42nd and 59th Streets on Fifth Ave. 
in New York City. You can find their addresses in the New York Yellow Pages 
under both National Tourist Agencies and Travel Agencies. There are over fifty of 
them. Prepare a form letter saying you are a high school geography teacher and 
would like some posters of the country to decorate your classroom. In a month 
you will be flooded with them. Airline companies also have colorful wall posters 
they send out free. 

SECURITY 

For this trick you need some money to begin with. Deposit it in a bank and return 
in a few weeks telling them you lost your bank book. They give you a card to fill 
out and sign and in a week you will receive another book. Now withdraw your 
money, leaving you with original money and a bank book showing a balance. 
You can use this as identification to prevent vagrancy busts when traveling, as 
collateral for bail, or for opening a charge account at a store. 

Another trick is to buy some American Travelers Checks. Wait a week and report 
your checks lost. They'll give you new ones to replace the missing ones. You 
spend your new checks and keep the ones you reported lost as security. This 
security is great for international travel especially at border crossings. If you 
want, you can spend the Travelers Checks by giving them to a friend to forge 
your name. Before you call the office to report the loss, call the police station and 
say you were mugged and your wallet was stolen. The agency always asks if you 
have reported the lost checks to the police, so you can safely answer yes. Never 
do this for more than five hundred dollars and never more than once with any 
one company. 

POSTAGE 

When mailing to the same city, address the envelope or package to yourself and 
put the name of the person you are sending it to where the return address 
generally goes. Mail it without postage and it will be "returned" to the sender. 
Because almost all letters are machine processed, any stamp that is the correct 
size will pass. Easter Seals and a variety of other type stamps usually get by the 
electronic scanner. If you put the stamp on a spot other than the far upper right 
corner, it will not be cancelled and can be used again by the person who gets 
your letter. If you have a friend working in a large corporation, you can run your 
organization's mail through their postage meter. 

Those ridiculous free introductory or subscription type letters that you get in the 
mail often have a postage-guaranteed return postcard for your convenience. The 
next one you get, paste it on a brick and drop it in the mailbox. The company is 
required by law to pay the postage. You can also get rid of all your garbage this 
way. 



MAPS 



You can get a free full-color World Atlas by writing to Hammond Inc. Maplewood, 
New Jersey 07040. 

MINISTRY 

Unquestionably one of the best deals going is becoming a minister in the 
Universal Life Church. They will send you absolutely free, bona fide ordination 
papers. These entitle you to all sorts of discounts and tax exemptions. Right now, 
sit down and write to Universal Life Church Inc., 601 3rd St., Modesto, California 
95351. Try cutting out the card on the following page and laminate it. Let us know 
how it works out. 

ATROCITIES 

Join the Army! 
VETERAN'S BENEFITS 

Write to the Veteran's Administration Information Service, Washington, D.C. 
20420 asking them for the free services they provide for veterans. Send fifteen 
cents to the Government Printing Office for their booklet Federal Benefits 
Available to Veterans and Their Dependents. 

WATCH 

A $330 Bulova sport timer accurate to 1/10 of a second will be lent free to judges 
and referees to time any amateur sporting event. Call your local authorized 
Bulova dealer and get one lent to you under a phony name. Tell them you want 
to time an orgy. 

VACATIONS 

There are many ways to take a free vacation, but here's one you might not have 
considered. It's an all-expenses paid trip to Las Vegas for absolutely nothing. Call 
a travel agent and request information about Las Vegas gambling junkets (you'll 
probably have to hunt around because this practice is being curtailed). Different 
hotels have different deals, but the average one runs something like this: If you 
agree to buy $500 worth of chips that can only be spent on gambling tables of 
the host hotel, they will fly you round trip, pay all hotel and food bills and provide 
you with a rented car. Go with a close friend and check into the hotel. Once at 
the roulette or craps table, you and your friend bet the same amount of chips 
against each other on even-paying chances. For example, he would bet on red 
and you on black. When either of you wins, you keep the house chips; when you 
lose, turn in the specially marked chips that cannot be cashed in. What you are 



doing is simply exchanging the chips you came with for house chips that you can 
cash in for real dough. Theoretically your two vacations should cost $23.00 if you 
do the betting at the crap table and $52.00 if you bet even chances at roulette. 
That is because the house wins if 0 or 00 comes up in roulette and if 12 comes 
up on the first roll of the dice, but it sure is a hell of a vacation for two for $23.00, 
and you get free champagne on some flights. 

You can get half a vacation free by going to the Amerikan Embassy or Consulate 
in the country you find yourself in and claim that you're destitute. There is a law 
on the books that says they have to send you away, but be persistent. Make up a 
story about how your parents are away from home traveling. Say you got 
mugged or something and you are about to go to the newspapers with your story. 
Eventually they'll get you a free plane ticket. They stamp your passport invalid 
though, and you have to pay the government back before you can use it again. 

DRINKS 

When hitching, it's a good idea to carry a bottle opener and a straw. You take the 
caps off soda bottles while they're still in the machine and drink them dry without 
ever touching the bottle. 

BURIALS 

For ways to avoid the high cost of dying in Amerika, write to: Continental 
Association, 39 East Van Buren St., Chicago, III. 60605. Send them $1 .00 for the 
Manual of Simple Burial and 250 for a list of Memorial Associates. 

ASTRODOME PICTURES 

Don't you just have to have a huge, glossy color photo of Houston's famed 
Astrodome to show all your friends? Use the teacher bit and write to: Greater 
Houston Convention and Visitors Council, 1600 Main St., Houston, Texas 77002. 

DIPLOMA 

Above the paper towel dispenser in a service station restroom was written: "San 
Francisco State Diplomas." If you really need a college or a high school diploma, 
send $2.00 to Glenco, Box 834, Warren, Michigan 48090. They send you one 
that looks real authentic. It ain't Harvard, but it looks good enough to frame and 
put on your wall. 

TOILETS 

Sneak Under! 




Tell It All, Brothers and Sisters 



STARTING A PRINTING WORKSHOP 



Leaflets, posters, newsletters, pamphlets and other printed matter are important 
to any revolution. A printing workshop is a definite need in all communities, 
regardless of size. It can vary from a garage with a mimeograph machine to a 
mammoth operation complete with printing presses and fancy photo equipment. 
With less than a hundred dollars and some space, you can begin this vital 
service. It'll take a while before you get into printing greenbacks, phony 
identification papers and credit cards like the big boys, but to walk a mile you 
must start with one step as Gutenberg once said. 

Paper 

The standard size for paper is 8/4" x 1 1". It comes 500 sheets to a "ream" and 10 
reams to a case. You want a 16-20 bond weight sheet. The higher weights are 
better if you are printing on both sides. You can purchase what are termed "odd 
lots" from most paper companies. This means that the colors will be assorted and 
some sheets will be frayed at the edges or wrinkled. Odd lots can be purchased 
at great discounts. Some places sell paper this way for 10% of the original price 
and for leaflets, different colors help. Check this out with paper suppliers in your 
area. 

Ink 

Inks come in pastes and liquids and are available in stationary stores and office 
supply houses. Each machine requires its own type ink, so learn what works best 
with the one you have. Colored ink is slightly more expensive but available for 
most machines. 

Stencils 

Each machine uses a particular size and style stencil. If you get stuck with the 
wrong kind and can't get out to correct the mistake, you can punch extra holes in 
the top, trim them with a scissors if they are too big or add strips of tape to the 
sides if too narrow. 

Be sure and use only the area that will fit on the paper you are using. Most 
stencils can be used for paper larger than standard size. Stencils will "cut" a lot 
neater if an electric typewriter is used. If you only have access to e manual 
machine, remove the ribbon so the keys will strike the stencil directly. A plastic 
sheet, provided by the supplier, can be inserted between the stencil and its 
backing to provide sharper cuts by the keys. If you hold the stencil up to a light, 
you should be able to clearly see the typing. If you can't, you'll have to apply 
more pressure. 



Sketches can be done with a ball point pen or special stylus directly on the 
stencil. If you're really rushed, or there isn't that much info to get on the leaflet, 
you can hand-print the text using these instruments. Take care not to tear the 
stencil. 

Mimeograph Machines 

The price of a new mimeograph runs from $200 to $1200, depending on how 
sophisticated a machine you need and can afford. A.B. Dick and Gestetner are 
the most popular brands. Many supply houses have used machines for sale. 
Check the classified section for bargains. See if any large corporations are 
moving, going out of business or have just had a fire. Chances are they'll be 
unloading printing equipment at cheap prices. Campaign offices of losing 
candidates often have mimeos to unload in November. Many supply houses 
have renting and leasing terms that you might be interested in considering. Have 
an idea of the work load and type of printing you'll be handling before you go 
hunting. Talk to someone who knows what they're doing before you lay down a 
lot of cash on a machine. 

Duplicators 

We prefer duplicators to mimeos even though the price is a little higher. They 
work faster, are easier to operate and print clearer leaflets. The Gestener Silk 
Screen Duplicator is the best bet. It turns out stuff almost as good as offset 
printing. You can do 10 thousand sheets an hour in an assortment of colors. 

Electronic Stencils 

If you use electronic stencils you can do solid lettering, line drawings, cartoons 
and black and white pictures with good contrast. To make an electronic stencil, 
you map out on a sheet of paper everything you want printed. This is a photo 
process, so make sure only what you want printed shows up on the sheet. You 
can use a light blue pencil for guide lines as it won't photograph, but be neat 
anyway. Printing shops will cut a stencil on a special machine for about $3.00. 

The Gestefax Electronic Stencil Cutter can be leased or rented in the same way 
as the duplicator. If you are doing a lot of printing for a number of different 
groups, this machine will eliminate plenty of hassle. The stencils cost about 200 
each and take about fifteen minutes to make. 

If you have an electronic stencil cutter, duplicator, electric typewriter and a cheap 
source of paper, you can do almost any printing job imaginable. Have a dual rate 
system: one for community groups and another for regular business orders. You 
can use the profits to go towards the purchasing of more equipment and to build 
toward the day when you can get your own offset press. 



Silk Screening 



Posters banners and shirts that are unbelievable can be printed by this exciting 
method. The process is easy to learn and teach. You'll need a fairly large area to 
work in since the posters have to be hung up to dry. Pick up any inexpensive 
paperback book on silk screening. The equipment costs less than $50.00 to 
begin. Once you get good at it, you can print complicated designs in a number of 
different colors, including portraits. 

UNDERGROUND NEWSPAPERS 

Food conspiracies, bust trusts, people's clinics and demonstrations are all part of 
the new Nation, but if asked to name the most important institution in our lives, 
one would have to say the underground newspaper. It keeps tuned in on what's 
going on in the community and around the world. Values, myths, symbols, and all 
the trappings of our culture are determined to a large extent by the underground 
press. Each office serves as a welcome mat for strangers, a meeting place for 
community organizers and a rallying force to fight pig repression. There are 
probably over 500 regularly publishing with readerships running from a few 
hundred to over 500,000. Most were started in the last three years. If your scene 
doesn't have a paper, you probably don't have a scene together. A firmly 
established paper can be started on about $2,500. Plan to begin with eight pages 
in black and white with a 5,000 copy run. Each such issue will cost about $300 to 
print. You should have six issues covered when you start. Another $700 will do 
for equipment. Offset printing is what you'll want to get from a commercial 
printing establishment. 

You need some space to start, but don't rush into setting up a storefront office 
until you feel the paper's going to be successful. A garage, barn or spare 
apartment room will do just fine. Good overhead fluorescent lighting, a few long 
tables, a bookcase, desk, chairs, possibly a phone and you are ready to start. 

Any typewriter will work, but you can rent an IBM Selectric typewriter with a 
deposit of $120.00 and payments of $20.00 per month. Leasing costs twice as 
much, but you'll own the machine when the payments are finished. The Selectric 
has interchangeable type that works on a ball system rather than the old-fashion 
keys. Each ball costs $18.00, so by getting a few you can vary the type the way a 
printer does. 

A light-table can make things a lot easier when it comes to layout. Simply build a 
box (3' x 4' is a good size, but the larger the better) out of V2" plywood. The back 
should be higher than the front to provide a sloping effect. The top should consist 
of a shelf of frosted glass. Get one strong enough to lean on. Inside the box, 
attach two fluorescent light fixtures to the walls or base. The whole light table 
should cost less than $25.00. That really is about all you need, except someone 
with a camera, a few good writers who will serve as reporters, an artistic person 



to take care of layout, and someone to hassle printing deals, advertising and 
distribution. Most people start by having everyone do everything. 

Layout 

A tabloid size paper is 9 7/8" x 14 5/8" with an inch left over on each side for 
margins. Columns typically are 3 1/4" allowing for three per page. Experience 
has found that this size is easy to lay out and more importantly, easy to read. 
There is an indirect ratio between readability and academic snobbishness. Avoid 
the textbook look. Remember, the New York Times in its low form represents the 
Death Kulture. 

Start off with a huge collection of old magazines and newspapers. You can cut 
up all sorts of letters, borders, designs and sketches and paste them together to 
make eye-catching headlines. Sheets of headline type are available in different 
styles from art stores for $1 .25 a sheet. Buy one of each type and then 
photograph several copies of each, bringing the price way down. The basic 
content in the prescribed column size should be banged out on the IBM. The 
columns can be clipped together with a clothespin to avoid confusion. Use a 
good heavy bond white opaque paper. 

All black and white photographs from newspapers and magazines can be used 
directly. Color pictures can also be used but it's tricky and you'll have to 
experiment a little to get an understanding of what colors photograph poorly. 
Glossy black and white photographs must be shot in halftones to keep the grey 
areas. You can have them processed at any photo lab. You might also need the 
photo lab for enlargements or reductions, so make contact and establish a good 
working relationship. 

An Exacto knife is available for 290 and you can get a package of 100 blades for 
$10.00. A few metal rulers, a good pair of scissors, some spray adhesive or 
rubber cement and you're ready to paste the pages that will make up the 
"dummy" that goes to the printer. Each page is laid out on special layout sheets 
with faint blue guide lines that don't photograph. Any large art supply store sells 
these sheets and all the other supplies. 

By working over a light-table, the paste-up can be done more professionally. 
Experiment with many different layouts for each page before finally pasting up 
the paper. Don't have a picture in the corner and the rest solid columns. Print can 
be run over pictures and sketches by preparing two sheets for that page and 
shooting background in half-tones. The columns don't have to be run straight up 
and down, but can run at different angles. The most newsworthy articles should 
be towards the front of the paper. The centerfold can be treated in an exciting 
manner. A good idea is to do the centerfold so that it can be used as a poster to 
put on a wall after the paper is read. If you have ads, they should be kept near 
the back. The masthead, which gives the staff, mailing address, and similar info, 



goes near the front. Your focus should be the local activities. A section should be 
reserved for a directly of local services and events. People giving things away 
should have a section. The rest really depends on the life style and politics of the 
staff. 

National stories can be supplied by one or more of the news services. Nothing in 
the underground press is copyrighted, so you can reprint an interesting article 
from another paper. It's customary to indicate what paper printed it first, or news 
service it was sent out by. Any underground paper has permission to reprint 
hunks of this book. 

Ads 

Most papers find it necessary to get some advertising to help defray the 
production costs. Some rely totally on subscription; some are outgrowths of 
organizations and still others are printed up and just handed out free. The ones 
with ads seem to have the longest life. Make up an ad rate before you put out the 
first issue. Ads are measured in inches of length. The width is understood by 
everyone to be the width of the column. If you use the 3 1 /4" column, however, 
you'll want to let potential advertisers know you have wide columns. 

The way to arrive at a reasonable rate is to estimate the total budget for each 
issue (adding some for overhead and labor), then each page and finally each 
column inch. After a little arithmetic you can get a good estimate of your printing 
cost per inch. Using our figures throughout this section, it should come to about 
$2.00 per inch. Double this figure and you'll arrive at the correct rate per 
advertising inch-$4.00. There should be special lower rates for large ads, such as 
half or full pages. There should also be a special arrangement for a continuous 
subscriber. If you have a classified section, another rate based on number of 
words or lines is constructed. A service charge is fixed if you make up the ad 
layout rather than the advertiser. The whole formula should be worked out and 
printed up before you lay out the first issue. 

The best place to get advertising is locally. Theaters, hip clothing stores, ice 
cream parlors, and record stores are among the type of advertisers you should 
approach. After you build up a circulation, you might want to seek out national 
advertisers. The Underground Press Syndicate, Box 26, Village Station, New 
York, NY 10014, can be joined for $25.00, no dues thereafter. They try to get 
national ads for you in addition to sending out a newsletter, a news service, and 
making sure you get free subscriptions to the other underground papers. The 
U.P.S. can also do many other things for you, like list you in their directory, obtain 
legal advice, and bring you together with other underground papers for mutual 
benefit and defense. Another way to get national advertising is to see who tends 
to advertise in other underground papers. Send the publicity department of these 
companies letters and samples of your paper. Never let ads make up more than 
half the paper. 



Distribution 

At the beginning you should aim for a bi-weekly paper with a gradual increase in 
the number of pages. The price should be about 250. Check out the local laws 
about selling papers on the street. It's probably allowed and is a neat way to get 
the paper around. Give half to the street hawkers. Representatives at high 
schools and colleges should be sought out. Bookstores and newsstands are 
good places to distribute. After your paper gets going well, you might try for 
national distribution. The Cosmep Newsletter is put out by the Committee of 
Small Magazines, Editors and Publishers, PO Box 1425, Buffalo, NY 14214. In 
addition to good tips if you want to start a small literary magazine or publish your 
own book, they provide an up-to-date list of small stores around the country that 
would be likely to carry your paper. Subscriptions should be sought in the paper 
itself. If you get a lot, check out second class mailing privileges. UPS can help 
with out-of-city distribution. 

If you're in a smaller town, you might have to shop around or go to another city to 
get printing done. Many printers print only pig swill, which brings up the point of 
getting busted for obscenity which can be pretty common. You probably should 
incorporate, but contact a sympathetic lawyer before you put out your first issue. 
During the summer there are usually a few alternative media conferences 
organized by one group or another. You can pick up valuable information and 
exchange ideas at these gatherings. UPS and the news services will keep you 
posted. Good luck and write on! 

HIGH SCHOOL PAPERS 

The usual high school paper is run by puppet lackeys of the administration. It 
avoids controversy, naughty language, and a host of other things foreign to the 4- 
H Club members the school is determined to mass produce. The only thing the 
staff is good at is kissing the principal's ass. Let's face it, the aim of a good high 
school newspaper should be to destroy the high school. Publishing and 
distributing a heavy paper isn't going to earn you the Junior Chamber of 
Commerce good citizenship award. You might have to be a little mysterious 
about who the staff is until you understand the ground rules and who controls the 
ballpark%the people or the principal. 

Many schools do not allow papers to be handed out on the school premises. 
These cases are generally won by the newspapers that take the school to court. 
You can challenge the rule and make the administration look like the dinosaurs 
they are by distributing sheets of paper with only your logo and the school rule 
printed. By gaining outside publicity for the first distribution of the paper, you 
might put the administration up tight about clamping down on you. It might be 
difficult to explain in civics class when they get to the freedom of the press stuff. 
Your paper should have one purpose in mind 3 /4to piss off the principal and 
radicalize the students. If you run into problems, seek out a sympathetic lawyer. 



You can get a helpful pamphlet from the ACLU, 156 5th Ave., New York, NY 
10010, called Academic Freedom in the Secondary Schools" for 250. 

Tell your lawyer about the most recent (July 10, 1970) decision of the United 
States District Court in Connecticut which ruled that the high school students of 
Rippowan High School in Stanford can publish independent newspapers without 
having the contents screened in advance by school officials. 

The same info for underground papers applies to high school rags, only the price 
should be much less if not free. To begin with, you might just mimeograph the 
first few issues before trying photo-offset printing. It is very important to get the 
readers behind you in case you have to go to war with the administration in order 
to survive. Maintain friendships with above ground reporters, the local 
underground paper and radical community groups for alliances. 




G.I. PAPERS 



A heavier scene than even the high schools exists in No-No Land of the military. 
None-the-less, against incredible odds, courageous G.l.'s both here and 
overseas have managed to put out a number of underground newspapers. If you 
are a G.I. interested in starting a paper, the first thing to do is seek out a few 
buddies who share your views on the military and arrange a meeting, preferably 
off the base. Once you have your group together, getting the paper published will 
be no problem. Keeping your staff secret, you can have one member contact with 
someone from a G.I. coffee house, anti-war organization or nearby underground 
newspaper. This civilian contact person will be in a position to raise the bread 
and arrange the printing and distribution of the paper. You can write one of the 
national G.I. newspaper organizations listed at the end of this section if you are 
unable to find help locally. The paper should be printed off the base. Government 
equipment should be avoided. 

Correspondence and subscriptions can be solicited through the use of a post 
office box. Such a box is inexpensive and secret (at least that's what the G.I. 
papers now publishing report) from military snoopers up tight about bad publicity 
if they get caught spying. If you are mailing the paper to other G.l.'s use first 
class mail and a plain envelope. This is advice to anybody sending stuff to a G.I. 
The mail is handled by "lifers" who will report troublemakers to their CO. 
(Commanding Officer) if they notice anti-war slogans on envelopes or dirty 
commie rags coming their way. 

You'll want to publish stuff relevant to the lives of the G:l.'s on your base. News 
of demonstrations, articles on the war, racism, counter-culture and vital info on 
how to bug the higher-ups and get out of the military service are all good. Get 
samples of other newspapers already in operation to get the flavor of writing that 
has become popular. 

Distributing the paper is really more of a problem than the publishing. Here you 
run smack into Catch 22, which says, "no printed matter may be distributed on a 
military base without prior written permission of the commanding officer." No 
such permit has been granted in military history. A few court battles have had 
limited success and you should go through the formality of obtaining a permit. 
Send the first issue of the paper to your CO. with a cover letter stating where 
and when you intend to distribute the paper on the base. In no part of the 
application should you list your names. Have a civilian, preferably a civil liberties 
lawyer, sign the declaration of intent. If more info is requested, go over it with the 
lawyer before responding, Natch, they're going to want to know who you are and 
where you get your bread, but fuck 'em. Whether or not you get a permit or have 
a successful court battle is pretty academic. If the military pigs catch you handing 
out an underground paper on the base, you're headed for trouble. Use civilian 
volunteers from your local peace group in as many public roles as possible. 
They'll be glad to help out. 



Print and distribute as many copies as you can rather than concentrating on an 
expensively printed paper with numerous pages. The very existence of the paper 
around the base is the most important info the paper can offer. Leave some in 
mess halls, theaters, benches, washrooms, and other suitable spots. Off base 
get the paper to sympathetic reporters, coffee houses, colleges and the like. 
Outside U.S.O. centers and bus terminals are a good place to get the paper out. 
Rely on donations, so you can make the paper free. Get it together. Demand the 
right to join the army of your choice. The People's Army! As Joe Hill said in one 
of his songs, "Yes, I'll pick up a gun but I won't guarantee which way I'll point it." 

NEWS SERVICES 

Aside from UPS, which is the association of papers, there are five news services 
that we know of that you might be interested in subscribing to for national stories, 
photos, production ideas, news of other papers and general movement dope. 
LNS is the best known. It sends out packets once a week that include about thirty 
pages with original articles, eye-witness reports, reprints from foreign papers and 
photographs. They tend to be heavily political rather than cultural and view 
themselves as molders of ideology rather than strictly a service organization of 
the underground papers. A subscription costs $15.00 per month, but if you're just 
starting out they are good about slow payments and such. 

You should get in the habit of sending special articles, in particular eye-witness 
accounts of events that other papers might use, to one or more of the news 
services for distribution. If you hear of an important event that you would like to 
cover in your newspaper, call the paper in that area for a quick report. They 
might send you photos if you agree to reciprocate. 

. LIBERATION NEWS SERVICE-160 Claremont Ave., New York, N.Y. 

10027 (212)749-2200 
. COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE-1779 Church St., NW, Washington, D.C. 

20036 (202) 387-7575 
. CHICANO PRESS ASSOCIATION-La Raza, Box 31004, Los Angeles, 

California 90031 

. G.I. PRESS SERVICE-Rm 907, 1029 Vermont Ave., NW, Washington, 
D.C. 20005 

. FREE RANGER INTERTRIBAL NEWS SERVICE-Box 26, Village Station, 
N.Y., N.Y. 10014 (212) 691-6973 

A complete and up-to-date list of G.I. underground papers can be obtained by 
writing to G.I. Press Service, 1029 Vermont Ave., NW, Rm 907, Washington, 
D.C. 20005. G.I. Alliance provides excellent national newsletters with all sorts of 
ways to fuck up the Army. Write G.I. Alliance, PO Box 9087, Washington, D.C. 
20003. The phone is (202) 544-1654. American Serviceman's Union, 156 5th 
Avenue, New York, N.Y., 10010 will also help, as well as provide legal and 
medical aid to G.l.'s. 



A complete and up to date list of Chicano underground papers can be obtained 
by writing to Chicano Press Association, La Raza, Box 31004, Los Angeles, 
California 90031. 

The Young Lords Organization paper Palante can be obtained by writing to 
Young Lords Party, Ministry of Finance, 1678 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 
10029. It's $5.75 for 24 issues. 

The Black Panther Party paper can be obtained by writing to Black Panther 
Party, Ministry of Information, Box 2967, Custom House, San Francisco, Calif. 
94126. It's $7.50 for 52 issues. 

THE UNDERGROUND PRESS 

. ALBION'S VOICE, Box 9033, Savannah, Ga. 31401 $4/yr. 
. AMAZING GRACE, 212 W. College Ave. Tallahassee, Fla. $6/26 issues. 
. ANGRY CITY PRESS, 14016 Orinoco Ave., E. Cleveland, Ohio 441 12 
. ANN ARBOR ARGUS, 708 Arch St., Ann Arbor, Mich. 481 04 $3/yr. 
. AQUARIAN ORACLE, 8003 Santa Monica Blvd., L.A., Calif. .50/iss. 
. AQUARIAN TIMES, 331 Forest Acres Shipping Ctr., Easley, S.C. 29640 
. AQUARIAN WEEKLY, 292 Main St., Hackensack, N.J. 
. ASTRAL PROJECTION, Box 4383, Albuquerque, N. Mex. 87106 
. AUGUR, 207 Ransom Bldg., 1 15 E. 1 1th Ave., Eugene, Ore. 97401 
. BARD OBSERVER, Box 76, Bard College, Annandale-on-the Hudson, 
N.Y. 12504 

. BERKELEY BARB, Box 1247, Berkeley, Calif. 94715 $6/yr. 
. BERKELEY TRIBE, Box 9049, Berkeley, Calif. 94709 $8/ 
. BOTH SIDES NOW, 10370 St. Augustine Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32217 
$2/12 iss. 

. BROADSIDE/FREE PRESS, Box 65, Cambridge, Mass. 02139 $4.50/yr. 
. BURNING RIVER NEWS, 12027 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44112 
$5/yr. 

. CHINOOK, 1452 Pennsylvania St., Denver, Col., 80203 $6/50 iss. 
. THE CLAM COMMUNITY LIBERATOR, Box 13101, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
33733 

. COME OUT, Box 92, Village Station, New York, N.Y. 10014, $6.50/12 iss. 
. COUNTRY SENSES, Box 465, Woodbury, Conn. 06798 $5/yr. 
. CREEM, 3729 Cass Ave., Detroit, Mich. 48201 $5/24 iss. 
. DAI LEY PLANET, Suite 2-3514 S. Dixie Hwy., Coconut Grove, Fla. 33133 
$5/yr. 

. DALLAS NOTES, Box 7140, Dallas, Texas 75209 $5/yr. 

. DIFFERENT DRUMMER, Box 2638, Little Rock, Ark. 72203 $2/14 iss. 

. DISTANT DRUMMER, 420 South St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19147 $7/yr. 

. DOOR TO LIBERATION, Box 2022, San Diego, Calif. 92112 $4/26 iss. 

. DWARFF, Box 26, Village Station, N.Y., N.Y. 10014 

. EAST VILIAGE OTHER, 20 E. 12 St., N.Y., N.Y. 10003 $6/yr. 



. EL GRITO DEL NORTE, Box 466, Fairview Station, Espanola, N.M. $4/yr. 

. EYE OF THE BEAST, Box 9218, Tampa, Fla. 33604 

. FERAFERIA, Box 691 , Altadena, Calif. 91 001 $4/1 3 iss. 

. FIFTH ESTATE, 1 107 W. Warren, Detroit, Mich. 48201 $3.75/yr. 

. FILMMAKERS NEWSLETTER, 80 Wooster St., N.Y., N.Y. 10012 

. FREEDOM NEWS, Box 1087, Richmond, Calif. 94801 $2.50/12 iss. 

. FREE SPAGHETTI DINNER, Box 984, Santa Cruz, Calif. 95060 $4/yr. 

. FREE YOU, 1 1 7 University Ave., Palo Alto, Calif. 94301 $6/yr. 

. FUSION, 909 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 02215 $5/yr. 

. GEST, Box 1079, Northland Center, Southfield, Mich. 48075 $2/yr. 

. GREAT SPECKLED BIRD, Box 54495, Atlanta, Ga. 30308 $6/yr. 

. GREENFEEL, Jms Madison Law Inst., 4 Patchin PI., N.Y., N.Y. 1001 1 

. GUARDIAN, 32 W. 22 St., N.Y. N.Y. 10010 

. HAIGHT-ASHBURY TRIBUNE, 1778 Haight St., San Francisco, Calif. 
94117 $10/yr. 

. HARRY, 233 East 25th St., Baltimore, Md., 21218 $4/yr. 
. INDIANAPOLIS FREE PRESS, Box 225, Indianapolis, Ind. 46206 $5/26 
iss. 

. INQUISITION, Box 3882, Charlotte, N.C. 28203 $2/6 iss. 
. KALEIDOSCOPE, Box 5457, Milwaukee, Wise. 5321 1 $5/26 iss. 
. KUDZU, Box 22502, Jackson, Miss. 39205 $4/yr. 
. LAS VEGAS FREE PRESS, Box 14096, Las Vegas, Nev. 891 14 $7/yr. 
. LEFT FACE, Box 1595, Anniston, Ala. 36201 
. LIBERATION, 339 Lafayette St., N.Y. 10012 
. LIBERATION NEWS SERVICE, 160 Claremont Ave., N.Y. 10027 
$15/mth. 

. LIBERATOR, Box 1 147, Morgantown, W. Virginia 26505 
. LONGBEACH FREE PRESS, 1255 E. 10, Long Beach, Ca. 90813 $6/25 
iss. 

. LOS ANGELES FREE PRESS, 7813 Beverly Blvd., Los Angeles, Ca. 
90036 $6/yr. 

. MADISON KALEIDOSCOPE, Box 881, Madison, Wise. 53701 $5/yr. 
. MARIJUANA REVIEW, Calif. Instit. of Arts, 7500 Glenoaks Blvd., 

Burbank, Calif. 91504 
. MEMPHIS ROOT, Box 4747, Memphis, Tenn. 38104 $3.50/yr. 
. METRO, 906 W. Forest, Detroit, Mich. 48202 $4/yr. 
. MODERN UTOPIAN, P.O. Drawer A; Diamond Hts. Sta., S.F., Ca. 94131 

$4/yr. 

. MOTHER EARTH NEWS, Box 38 Madison, Ohio 44057 $5/yr 
. NEWS FROM NOWHERE, Box 501 , Dekalb, III. 601 1 5 $5/yr. 
. NEW PRAIRIE PRIMER, Box 726, Cedar Falls, Iowa 50613 $4/20 iss. 
. NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE, 110 St. Marks Place, N.Y. $5/lifetime 
. NOLA EXPRESS, Box 2342, New Orleans, La. 701 1 6 $3/yr. 
. NORTH CAROLINA ANVIL, Box 1 148, Durham, N.C. 27702 $7.50/yr. 
. NORTHWEST PASSAGE, Box 105, Fairhaven Sta., Bellingham, Wash. 
98225 $5/yr. 



. OLD MOLE, 2 Brookline St., Cambridge, Mass. 02139 $5/20 iss. 
. ORACLE OF SAN FRANCISCO, 1764 Haight St., San Francisco, Ca. 
94117 

. OTHER SCENES, Box B, Village Station, N.Y. 10014 $6/yr. 
. OTHER VOICE, c/o Why Not Inc., Box 3175, Shreveport, La. 71103 $5/yr. 
. PAPER WORKSHOP, 6 Helena Ave., Larchmont, N.Y. 10538 $4/yr. 
. PEOPLES DREADNAUGHT, Box 1 071 , Beloit, Wise. 
. PHILADELPHIA FREE PRESS, Box 1986, Philadelphia, Pa. 19105 
. PROTEAN RADISH, Box 202, Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514 $8/yr. 
. PROVINCIAL PRESS, Madala Print Shop, Box 1276, Spokane, Wash. 
99210 $5/yr. 

. QUICKSILVER TIMES, 1736 R St., N.W. Wash., D.C. 20009 $8/yr. 
. RAG, 2330 Guadalupe, Austin, Tex. 78705 $7.50/yr. 
. RAT, 241 E. 14 St., N.Y. 10009 $6/yr. 
. REBIRTH, Box 729, Phoenix, Ariz. 85001 

. RISING UP ANGRY, Box 3746, Merchandise Mart, Chicago, III. 60654 
$5/yr. 

. ROOSEVELT TORCH, 430 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III. 60605 
. SAN DIEGO STREET JOURNAL, Box 1332, San Diego, Calif. 921 12 
. SECOND CITY, c/o The Guild, 2136 N. Halsted, Chicago, III. 60614 $6/26 
iss. 

. SECOND COMING, Box 491 Ypsilanti, Mich. 48197 
. SEED, 950 W. Wrightwood, Chicago, III. 60614 $6/yr. 
. SPACE CITY, 1217 Wichita, Houston, Tex. 77004 
. SPECTATOR, c/o S. Indiana Media Corp., Box 1216, Bloomington, Ind. 
47401 

. SUNDANCE, 1 520 Hill, Ann Arbor, mich. 481 04 $3.50/yr. 
. UPROAR, 44 Wimbleton Lane, Great Neck, N.Y. 1 1023 
. VIEW FROM THE BOTTOM, 632 State St., New Haven, Conn. 06510 
$5/20 iss. 

. VORTEX, 706 Mass St., Lawrence, Kansas 66044 $5/24 iss. 

. WALRUS, Box 2307, Sta. A, Champaign, III. 61820 

. WATER TUNNEL, Box 136, State College, Pa. 16801 $3/Yr. 

. WILLIAM ETTE BRIDGE, 6 SW 6th, Portland, Ore. 97209 $5/26 iss. 

. WIN, 339 Lafayette St., N.Y. 10012 $5/yr. 

. WORKER'S POWER, 14131 Woodward Ave., Highland Park, Mich. 48203 
$3.50/yr. 

USA/UPS ASSOCIATE MEMBERS 

. AKWESASNE NOTES, Roosevelton, N.Y. 13683 .50/iss. 
. ALESTLE, c/o Paul Gorden, 7404 Tower Lake, Apt. 1D, Edwardsville, III. 
62025 

. ALLIANCE MAGAZINE, Box 229, Athens, Ohio 45701 

. ALL YOU CAN EAT, R.P.O. 4949, New Brunswick, N.J. 08903 $3/yr. 

. ALLTOGETHER, 44208 Montgomery-33 Palm Desert, Calif. $10/yr. 



. ALBION'S VOICE, P.O. Box 9033, Savannah, Ga. 31401 $4/yr. 

. AQUARIAN HERALD, Box 83, Virginia Beach, Va. 23458 

. ATLANTIS, 204 Oxford, Dayton, Ohio 

. BOTH SIDES NOW, 10370 St. Augustine Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 33217 
$3.50/12 iss. 

. COLLECTIVE, 614 Clark St., Evanston, III. 60201 

. COME TOGETHER, P.O. Box 163, Encino, Calif. 91316 

. CROSSROADS, Hill School, Pottstown, Pa. 19464 

. DALLAS NEWS (CORP), P.O. Box 7013, Dallas, Texas 75209 $/24 iss. 

. THE D.C. GAZETTE, 109 8th N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002 $5/yr. 

. EDGE CITY, 116 Standart St., Syracuse, N.Y. 13201 $3/yr. 

. EVERYWOMAN, 6516 W. 83 St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90045 $2.50/iss. 

. FAIR WITNESS, P.O. Box 7165, Oakland Sta., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 

. FOX VALLEY KALEIDOSCOPE, Box 252, Oshkosh, Wise. 54901 

. FREE PRESS OF LOUISVILLE, 1438 S. First St., Louisville, Ky. 40208 
$6/yr. 

. HIGH GAUGE, Box 4491 , University, Ala. 35486 $5/Yr. 

. THE HIPS VOICE, P.O. Box 5132, Santa Fe, N. Mexico 87501 $5/24 iss. 

. HOME NEWS CO., P.O. Box 5263, Grand Central Station, N.Y. 10017 

. HUNDRED FLOWERS, Box 7152, Minneapolis, Minn. 55407 $9/yr. 

. IT AIN'T ME BABE, c/o W.L. Office Box 6323, Albany, Calif. 94706 $6/yr. 

. LIBERATED GUARDIAN, 14 Cooper Sq., New York, N.Y. 10003 $10/yr. 

. THE LONG ISLAND FREE PRESS, P.O. Box 162, Westbury, N.Y. 11590 
$6/2 yr. 

. NEW TIMES, Box J, Temple, Ariz. 85281 $10/52 iss. 

. NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND, P.O. Box 15081, San Francisco, Calif. 
94115 

. OUR TOWN (COLLECTIVE), Box 61 1 , Eau Claire, Wise. 

. PALANTE YLP, 1678 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 

. PROTOS, 1 1 10 N. Edgemont St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90029 $3/yr. 

. PURPLE BERRIES, 449 West Seventh Ave., Columbus Ohio 

. REARGUARD, P.O. Box 81 1 5, Mobile, Ala. 36608 $4/yr. 

. THE S.S. PENTANGLE, Box 4429, New Orleans, La. 701 1 8 $4/20 iss. 

. ST. LOUIS OUTLAW, Box 9501, Cabanne Sta., St. Louis, Mo. 63161 

. SUSQUEHANNA BUGLER, 700 Market St., Williamsport, Pa. 17701 
.25/iss. 

. TASTY COMIX, Box 21 101 , Wash., D.C. 20009 

. THE TIMES NOW, Box 676, Coconut Grove, Fla. 33133 

. TUSCON FREE PRESS, Box 3403, College Sta., Tuscon, Ariz. 85716 

CANADA/UPS 

. ALTERNATE SOCIETY, 10 Thomas St., St. Catharines, Ont. $3.50/12 iss. 

• CARILLON, Univ. of Sask. Regina Campus, Regina, Saskatchewan 

. CHEVRON, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario $8/yr. 

. DIME BAG, 3592 University St., Montreal 130, Que. 



. FOURTH ESTATE, 24 Brighton Ct., Fredericton, N.B. 

. GEORGIA STRAIGHT, 56A Powell St., Vancouver, 4, B.C. $9/52 iss. 

. HARBINGER, Box 751 , Stn F, Toronto 285, Ontario $4/26 iss. 

. OCTOPUS, Box 1259, Station B, Ottawa, 4 $4.50/26 iss. 

. OMPHALOS, 2797 2 Fort St. No. 4, Winnipeg 1 , Manitoba $5/26 iss. 

. PRAIRIE FIRE; FOURTH ESTATE, Regina Community Media Project, 

210 Northern Crown Bldg. Regina, Sask. 

. SWEENEY, 1 1 9 Thomas St., Oakville, Ontario $2.50/1 2 iss. 

EUROPE/UPS 

. Europe/UPS, Box 304, 8025, Zurich, Switzerland 

. FIFTH COLUMN, 100 New Cavendish Street, London W1, England 

. FRIENDS, 305 Portobello Rd., London W10, England 

• HAPT, Flat L, 42 Moore Ave., W. Howe, Bournemouth, Hampshire, 
England 

. HOLLAND HAPT, Keigersstraat 2a, Amsterdam, Holland 

. HOTCHAI, Postfach 304-CH 8025, Zurich 25, Switz. $5/yr. 

. INTERNATIONAL TIMES, 27 Endell St., London, WC2, Eng. $5/yr. 

. KARGADOOR, Oude Gracht 36 bis. Utrecht, Holland 

• OEUF, 14 Ch de la Mogeonne, 1293 Bellevue, Geneva Switzerland 

• OM, Kaizerstraat 2A, 11et, Amsterdam, Holland, Neth. 
. OPS VEDA, 16 Woodholm Rd., Sheffield 1 1 , England 

• OZ, 52 Princedale Rd., London W1 1 , England $6/yr. 

. PEACE NEWS, 5 Celedonian Rd., Kings Cross, London W1, Eng. 
$8.50/yr. 

. PIANETA FRESCA, 14 Vie Manzoni, Milano, Italy 20121 $1/iss. 

• QUINTO LICEO, c/o Tommsaco Bruccoleri, 3, Meadow Place, London, 
England 

. REAL FREE PRESS, Runstraat 31, Amsterdam, Netherlands $1/2 iss. 

. RED MOLE, 182 Pentonville Rd., London N1 Eng. $5.50/yr. 

• ROTTEN, Huset, Readhusstraede 13, 1466 Copenhagen K. Denmark 

EUROPEAN ASSOCIATE MEMBERS 

. CYCLOPS, 32. St. Petersburg Place, London, W2, Eng. (Comix) 

• GRASS EYE, 71 Osbourne Rd., Levenshulme, Manchester 19, Eng. 
. MOLE EXPRESS, 19 New Brown St., Manchester 4, Eng. 

• PANGGG, Upn-Sippenpresse, d-8500, Nurnberg Kopernikusstr. 4, 
Germany 

. PARIA, c/o Poretti Viavalle Maggia 41 , 6600 Locarno, Switz. 

• ZIGZAG, Yeoman Cottage, N. Marston, Bucks, England 



LATIN AMERICA/UPS 



• ECO CONTEMPORANEO, C. Correo Central 1933, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina ...Membership list temporarily unavailable. 

SWITCHBOARDS 

A good way to quickly communicate what's coming down in the community is to 
build a telephone tree. It works on a pyramid system. A small core of people are 
responsible for placing five calls each. Each person on the line in turn calls five 
people and so on. If the system is prearranged correctly with adjustments made if 
some people don't answer the phone, you can have info transmitted to about a 
thousand people in less than an hour. A slower but more permanent method is to 
start a Switchboard. Basically, a Switchboard is a central telephone number or 
numbers that anybody can call night or day to get information. It can be as 
sophisticated as the community can support. The people that agree to answer 
the phone should have a complete knowledge of places, services and events 
happening in the community. Keep a complete updated file. The San Francisco 
Switchboard (see below) puts out an operator's manual explaining the 
organization and operation of a successful switchboard. They will send it out for 
120 postage. San Francisco has the longest and most extensive Switchboard 
operation. From time to time there are national conferences with local 
switchboards sending a rep. 

San Francisco 

. THE SWITCHBOARD - 1 830 Fell St., San Francisco, Calif. 941 1 7 (41 5) 
387-3575 

. MUSIC SWITCHBOARD - 1826 Fell St., San Francisco, Calif. 94117 (415) 
387-8008 

. MISSION SWITCHBOARD - 848 14th St., San Francisco, Calif. 94110 
(415) 863-3040 

. CHINATOWN EXCHANGE - 1042 Grant Ave., San Francisco, Calif. 

94108 (415)421-0943 
. THE HELP UNIT - 86 3rd St., San Francisco, Calif. 94103 (415) 421-9850 
. WESTERN ADDITION SWITCHBOARD - Fell & Fillmore, San Francisco, 

Calif. (415) 626-8524 

California 

. CHICO SWITCHBOARD - 120 W. 2nd St., Chico, Calif. (916) 342-7546 
. EAST OAKLAND SWITCHBOARD - 281 2 73rd Ave., Oakland, Calif. 
(415)569-6369 

. MARIN MUSIC SWITCHBOARD - 1017 "D" St., San Rafael, Calif. (415) 
457-2104 

. WEST OAKLAND LEGAL SWITCHBOARD - 2713 San Pablo, Oakland, 
Calif. (415) 836-3013 



. SWITCHBOARD OF MARIN - 1017 "D" St., San Rafael, Calif. (415) 456- 
5300 

. BERKELEY SWITCHBOARD - 2389 Oregon, Berkeley, Calif. (415) 549- 
0649 

. SANTA CRUZ SWITCHBOARD - 604 River St., Santa Cruz, Calif. (408) 
426-8500 

. PALO ALTO XCHANGE - 457 Kingsley Ave., Palo Alto, Calif. (41 5) 327- 
9008 

. SAN JOSE SWITCHBOARD - 50 S. 4th St., San Jose, Calif. (408) 295- 
2938 

. SANTA BARBARA SWITCHBOARD - 6575 Seville, Isla Vista, Calif. (805) 
968-3564 

. EUREKA SWITCHBOARD - 1427 California, Eureka, Calif. (707) 443- 
8901 & 443-8311 

. UC DAVIS SWITCHBOARD - (on campus), UC Davis, Calif. (916) 752- 
3495 

Other Western States 

. TURNSTILE - 1900 Emerson, Denver, Colorado (303) 623-3445 
. BLACKHAWK INFORMATION CENTER - 628 Walnut St., Waterloo, Iowa 
(319) 234-9965 

. TAOS SWITCHBOARD - c/o Gen. Del., Taos, New Mexico (505) 758- 
4288 

. PORTLAND SWITCHBOARD - 1216 SW Salmon, Portland, Oregon (503) 
224-0313 

. HOUSTON SWITCHBOARD - 108 San Jacinto, Houston, Texas (713) 
228-6072 

. YOUTH EMERGENCY SERVICE - 623 Cedar Ave. So., Minneapolis, 
Minn. (612)338-7588 

Eastern States 

. POWELTON TROUBLE CENTER - 222 N. 35th St., Phila., Penna.. (215) 
382-6472 

. WASHINGTON D.C. SWITCHBOARD - 2201 P St. NW, Washington, D.C. 
(202) 667-4684 

. MIAMI CENTER FOR DIALOG - 2175 NW 26th St., Miami, Fla. (305) 634- 
7741 

. CANTERBURY HOUSE - 330 Maynard S, Ann Arbor, Michigan (313) 665- 
0606 

. THE LISTENING EAR - 547 E. Grand River, East Lansing, Michigan (517) 
337-1717 

. THE ECSTATIC UMBRELLA - 3800 McGee Kansas City, Missouri (816) 
561-4524 

. OPEN CITY - 4726 3rd St., Detroit, Michigan (313) 831-2770 



. SWITCHBOARD INC. - 1722 Summit St., Number 6, Columbus, Ohio 
(614)294-6378 

• HELP - c/o Marby Beil, 1708 E. Lafayette, Number 5, Milwaukee, 

Wisconsin (414)273-5959 
. UNITED CHURCH PRESBYTERIAN - 181 Mount Horeb Rd., Warren, N.J. 

(201)469-5044 

. BOSTON SWITCHBOARD - 45 Bowdoin St., Boston, Mass. (617) 246- 
4255 

. PROJECT PLACE - 37 Rutland St., Boston, Mass.(61 7)267-5280 
. BEVERLY SWITCHBOARD - Beverly Hospital, Beverly, Mass. (617) 922- 
0000 

. FIRST CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH OF ACTON - 8 Concord Rd., 

Acton, Mass. (617) 263-3940 
. HALF WAY HOUSE - 20 Linwood Sq., Roxbury, Mass. (61 7) 442-7591 
. ACID - 13 Linden Ave., Maiden, Mass. (617) 342-2218 
. PROJECT ASSIST - 945 Great Plain Ave., Needham, Mass. (617) 444- 

1902&3 

. LEXINGTON - ARLINGTON HOT LINE - 1912 Mass. Ave., Lexington, 

Mass. (617) 862-81 30&1 
. COMMUNITY YOUTH COMMISSION - 945 Great Plain Ave., Needham, 

Mass. (617) 444-1795 
. HOT LINE - 429 Cherry St., West Newton, Mass. (617) 969-5906 

Other Countries 

. BINARY INFORMATION TRANSFER - 141 Westbourne Park Rd., London 
W2, England. Ask overseas operator for London 222-8219 

. CANADIAN SWITCHBOARD - 282 Rue Ste. Catherine, West, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada (514) 866-2672 



For a complete and up-to-date list of switchboards and similar projects around 
the country, write to San Francisco Switchboard. They need 25 cents to cover 
postage costs. 




Guerrilla Broadcasting 
GUERRILLA RADIO 

Under FCC Low Power Transmission Regulations, it is legal to broadcast on the 
AM band without even obtaining a license, if you transmit with 100 milliwatts of 
power or less on a free band space that doesn't interfere with a licensed station. 
You are further allowed up to a 12-foot antenna or the use of carrier-current 
transmission (regular electric wall outlets). Using this legal set-up, you can 
broadcast from a 2 to 20 block radius depending on how high up you can locate 
your antenna and the density of tall buildings in the area. 

Carrier-current broadcasting consists of plugging the transmitter into a regular 
wall socket. It draws power in the same way as any other electrical appliance, 



and feeds its signal into the power line allowing the broadcast to be heard on any 
AM radio tuned into the operating frequency. The transmitter can be adjusted to 
different frequencies until a clear band is located. The signal will travel over the 
electrical wiring until it hits a transformer where it will be erased. The trouble with 
this method is that in large cities, almost every large office or apartment building 
has a transformer. You should experiment with this method first, but if you are in 
a city, chances are you'll need an antenna rigged up on the roof. Anything over 
twelve feet is illegal, but practice has shown that the FCC won't hassle you if you 
don't have commercials and refrain from interfering with licensed broadcasts. 
There are some cats in Connecticut broadcasting illegally with a 100-foot 
antenna over a thirty mile radius for hours on end and nobody gives them any 
trouble. Naturally if you insist upon using dirty language, issuing calls to 
revolution, broadcasting bombing information, interfering with above ground 
stations and becoming too well known, the FCC is going to try and knock you 
out. There are penalties that have never been handed out of up to a year in jail. 
It's possible you could get hit with a conspiracy rap, which could make it a felony, 
but the opinion of movement lawyers now is a warning if you're caught once, and 
a possible fine with stiffer penalties possible for repeaters that are caught. 

If it gets really heavy, you could still broadcast for up to 15 minutes without being 
pin-pointed by the FCC sleuths. By locating your equipment in a panel truck and 
broadcasting from a fixed roof antenna, you can make it almost impossible for 
them to catch you by changing positions. 

There has been a variety of transmitting equipment used, and the most effective 
has been found to be an AM transmitter manufactured by Low Power 
Broadcasting Co., 520 Lincoln Highway, Frazer, Penn. 19355. Call Dick 
Crompton at (215 Nl 4-4096. The right transmitter will run about $200. If you plan 
to use carrier-current transmission you'll also need a capacitor that sells for $30. 
An antenna can be made out of aluminum tubing and antenna wiring available at 
any TV radio supply store (see diagram). You'll also need a good microphone 
that you can get for about $10. Naturally, equipment for heavier broadcasting is 
available if a member of your group has a license or good connections with 
someone who works in a large electronics supply house. Also with a good 
knowledge in the area you can build a transmitter for a fraction of the purchase 
price. You can always employ tape recorders, turntables and other broadcasting 
hardware depending on how much bread you have, how much stuff you have to 
hide (i.e., how legal your operation is) and the type of broadcasting you want to 
do. 

It is possible to extend your range by sending a signal over the telephone lines to 
other transmitters which will immediately rebroadcast. Several areas in a city 
could be linked together and even from one city to another. Theoretically, if 
enough people rig up transmitters and antennas at proper locations and 
everyone operates on the same band, it is possible to build a nation-wide 
people's network that is equally theoretically legal. 



Broadcasting, it should be remembered, is a one-way transmission of 
information. Communications which allow you to transmit and receive are illegal 
without a license (ham radio). 

GUERRILLA TELEVISION 

There are a number of outlaw radio projects going on around the country. Less 
frequent, but just as feasible, is a people's television network. Presently there are 
three basic types of TV systems: Broadcast, which is the sending of signals 
directly from a station's transmitter to home receiver sets; Cable, where the cable 
company employees extremely sensitive antenna to pick up broadcast 
transmissions and relay them and/or they originate and send them; and thirdly, 
Closed Circuit TV, such as the surveillance cameras in supermarkets, banks and 
apartment house lobbies. 

The third system as used by the pigs is of little concern, unless we are interested 
in not being photographed. The cameras can be temporarily knocked out of 
commission by flashing a bright light (flashbulb, cigarette lighter, etc.) directly in 
front of its lens. For our own purposes, closed-circuit TV can be employed for 
broadcasting rallies, rock concerts or teach-ins to other locations. The equipment 
is not that expensive to rent and easy to operate. Just contact the largest 
television or electronics store in your area and ask about it. There are also 
closed-circuit and cable systems that work in harmony to broadcast special 
shows to campuses and other institutions. Many new systems are being 
developed and will be in operation soon. 

Cable systems as such are in use only in a relatively few areas. They can be 
tapped either at the source or at any point along the cable by an engineer freak 
who knows what to do. The source is the best spot, since all the amplification 
and distribution equipment of the system is available at that point. Tapping along 
the cable itself can be a lot hairier, but more frustrating for the company when 
they try to trace you down. 

Standard broadcasting that is received on almost all living room sets works on an 
RF (radio frequency) signal sent out on various frequencies which correspond to 
the channels on the tuner. In no area of the country are all these channels used. 
This raises important political questions as to why people do not have the right to 
broadcast on unused channels. By getting hold of a TV camera (Sony and 
Panasonic are the best for the price) that has an RF output, you can send 
pictures to a TV set simply by placing the camera cable on or near the antenna of 
the receiver set. When the set is operating on the same channel as the camera, it 
will show what the camera sees. Used video tape recorders such as the Sony CV 
series that record and play back audio and video information are becoming more 
available. These too can be easily adapted to send RF signals the same as a live 
camera. 



Whether or not the program to be broadcasted is live or on tape, there are three 
steps to be taken in order to establish a people's TV network. First, you must 
convert the video and audio signals to an RF frequency modulated (FM) signal 
corresponding to the desired broadcast channel. We suggest for political and 
technical reasons that you pick one of the unused channels in your area to begin 
experimenting. The commercial stations have an extremely powerful signal and 
can usually override your small output. Given time and experience you might 
want to go into direct competition with the big boys on their own channel. It is 
entirely possible, say in a 10 to 20 block radius, to interrupt a presidential press- 
conference with more important news. Electronic companies, such as Jerrold 
Electronics Corp., 4th and Walnut Sts., Philadelphia, Pa., make equipment that 
can RF both video and audio information onto specific channels. The device 
you'd be interested in is called a cable driver or RF modulator. 

When the signal is in the RF state, it is already possible to broadcast very short 
distances. The second step is to amplify the signal so it will reach as far as 
possible. A linear amplifier of the proper frequency is required for this job. The 
stronger the amplifier the farther and more powerful the signal. A 1 0-watt job will 
cover approximately 5 miles (line of sight) in area. Linear amplifiers are not that 
easily available, but they can be constructed with some electrical engineering 
knowledge. 

The third step is the antenna, which if the whole system is to be mobile to avoid 
detection, is going to involve some experimentation and possible camouflage. 
Two things to keep in mind about an antenna are that it should be what is 
technically referred to as a "di-pole" antenna (see diagram) and since TV signals 
travel on line of sight, it is important to place the antenna as high as possible. 
Although it hasn't been done in practice, it certainly is possible to reflect pirate 
signals off an make equipment that can RF both video and audio existing 
antenna of a commercial network. This requires a full knowledge of broadcasting; 
however, any amateur can rig up an antenna, attach it to a helium balloon and 
get it plenty high. For most, the roof of a tall building will suffice. If you're really 
uptight about your operation, the antenna can be hidden with a fake cardboard 
chimney. 

We realize becoming TV guerrillas is not everyone's trip, but a small band with a 
few grand can indeed pull it off. There are a lot of technical freaks hanging 
around recording studios, guitar shops, hi-fi stores and engineering schools that 
can be turned on to the project. By showing them the guidelines laid out here, 
they can help you assemble and build various components that are difficult to 
purchase (i.e., the linear amplifier). Naturally, by building some of the 
components, the cost of the operation is kept way down. Equipment can be 
purchased in selective electronics stores. You'll need a camera, VTR, RF 
modulator, linear amplifier and antenna. Also a generator, voltage regulator and 
an alternator if you want the station to be mobile. One of the best sources of 
information on both television and radio broadcasting is the Radio Amateur's 



Handbook published by the American Radio Relay League, Newington, Conn. 
0661 1 and available for $4.50. The handbook gives a complete course in 
electronics and the latest information on all techniques and equipment related to 
broadcasting. Back issues have easy to read do-it-yourself TV transmitter 
diagrams and instructions. Also available is a publication called Radical 
Software, put out by Raindance Corp., 24 E. 22nd St., New York, N.Y., with the 
latest info on all types of alternative communications. 

Guerrilla TV is the vanguard of the communications revolution, rather than the 
avant-garde cellophane light shows and the weekend conferences. One pirate 
picture on the sets in Amerika's living rooms is worth a thousand wasted words. 

With the fundamentals in this field mastered, you can rig up all sorts of shit. 
Cheap twenty-dollar tape recorders can be purchased and outfitted with a series 
of small loud-speakers. Concealed in a school auditorium or other large hall, 
such a system can blast out any message or music you wish to play. The 
administration will go insane trying to locate the operation if it is well hidden. We 
know two cats who rigged a church with this type of setup and a timing device. 
Right in the middle of the sermon, on came Radio Heaven and said stuff like 
"Come on preacher, this is God, you don't believe all that crap now, do you?" It 
made for an exciting Sunday service, all right. You can build a miniature 
transmitter and with a small magnet attach it to the underbelly of a police car to 
keep track of where it's going. This would only be practical in a small town or on 
a campus where there are only a few security guards or patrol vehicles. If you 
rigged a small tape recorder to the transmitter and tuned it to a popular AM band, 
the patrol car as it rode around could actually broadcast the guerrilla message 
you prerecorded. Wouldn't they be surprised when they found out how you did it? 
You can get a "Bumper Beeper" and receiver that are constructed by 
professionals for use by private detectives. The dual unit costs close to $400. If 
you've got that kind of bread, you can write John Bomar, 6838 No. 3rd Ave., 
Phoenix, Arizona 85013 for a catalogue and literature. 

Even though there are laws governing the area of sneaky surveillance, telephone 
taps, tracking devices and the like, a number of enterprising firms produce an 
unbelievable array of electronic hardware that allows you to match Big Brother's 
ears and eyes. Sugar cube transmitters, tie clasp microphones, phone taps, tape 
recorders that work in a hollowed-out book and other Brave New World 
equipment is available from the following places. Send for their catalogues just to 
marvel at the level of technology. R. B. Clifton, 1150 NW 7th Ave., Miami, Fla. 
33168; Electrolab Corp., Bank of Stateboro Building, Stateboro, Ga. 30458; or 
Tracer Investigative Products, Inc., 256 Worth. Ave., Palm, Beach, Fla. 33482. 

By the way, you can pick up Radio Hanoi on a short wave radio every day from 
3:00 to 3:30 PM at 15013 kilocycles on the 19 meter band. 




Negotiating a permit with city officials 



Demonstrations 



Demonstrations always will be an important form of protest. The structure can 
vary from a rally or teach-in to a massive civil disobedience such as the 
confronting of the warmakers at the Pentagon or a smoke-in. A demonstration is 
different from other forms of warfare because it invites people other than those 
planning the action via publicity to participate. It also is basically non-violent in 
nature. A complete understanding of the use of media is necessary to create the 
publicity needed to get the word out. Numbers of people are only one of the 
many factors in an effective demonstration. The timing, choice of target and 
tactics to be employed are equally important. There have been demonstrations of 
400,000 that are hardly remembered and demonstrations of a few dozen that 
were remarkably effective. Often the critical element involved is the theater. 
Those who say a demonstration should be concerned with education rather than 
theater don't understand either and will never organize a successful 
demonstration, or for that matter, a successful revolution. Publicity includes 
everything from buttons and leaflets to press conferences. You should be in 
touch with the best artists you can locate to design the visual props. Posters can 
be silk screened very cheaply and people can be taught to do it in a very short 
time. Buttons have to be purchased. The cheapest are those printed directly on 
the metal. The paint rubs off after a while, but they are ideal for mass 
demonstrations. You can print 10,000 for about $250.00. Leaflets, like posters, 
should be well designed. 

One way of getting publicity is to negotiate with the city for permits. Again, this 
raises political questions, but there is not doubt one reason for engaging in 
permit discussions is for added publicity. 

The date, time and place of the demonstration all have to be chosen with skill. 
Know the projected weather reports. Pick a time and day of the week that are 
convenient to most people. Make sure the place itself adds some meaning to the 
message. Don't have a demonstration just because that's the way it's always 
been done. It is only one type of weapon and should be used as such. On the 
other hand, don't dismiss demonstrations because they have always turned out 
boring. You and your group can plan a demonstration within the demonstration 
more accurately. Also don't tend to dismiss demonstrations outright because the 
repression is too great. During World War II the Danes held street 
demonstrations against the Nazis who occupied their country. Even today there 
are public demonstrations against the Vietnam War in downtown Saigon. 
Repression is there, but overestimating it is more a tactical blunder than the 
reverse. None the less, it's wise to go to all demonstrations prepared for a 
vamping by the pigs. 



DRESS 



Most vamping is accompanied by clubbing, rough shoving and dragging, gassing 
and occasional buckshot or rifle fire. The clothing you wear should offer you the 
best protection possible, yet be light weight enough to allow you to be highly 
mobile. CS and CN are by far the most commonly employed tear gas 
dispersibles. Occasionally they are combined with pepper gas to give better 
results. Pepper gas is a nerve irritant that affects exposed areas of the skin. 
Clothing that is tight fitting and covers as much of the body surface as possible is 
advisable. This also offers some protection if you are dragged along the ground. 
Gloves come in handy as protection and if you want to pick up gas canisters and 
throw them back at the pigs or chuck them through a store window. 

Your shoes should be high sneakers for running or boots for kicking. Hiking boots 
sold in army surplus stores serve both purposes and are your best selection for 
street action. Men should wear a jock strap or protective cup. Rib guards can be 
purchased for about $6.00 at any sporting goods store. Shoulder pads and leg 
pads are also available, but unless you expect heavy fighting and are used to 
wearing this clumsy street armor, you'll be better off without it. 



HELMETS 



Everyone should have a helmet. Your head sticks out above the swarming crowd 
and dents like a tin can. Protect it! The type of helmet you get depends on what 
you can afford and how often you'll be using it. The cheapest helmet available is 
a heavy steel tank model. This one is good because it offers ear protection and 
has a built-in suspension system to absorb the blow. It is also bullet proof. It's 
disadvantages are that it only comes in large sizes and is the heaviest thing you'll 
ever have on your head. It costs about $3.00. For $5.00 you can get a Civil 
Defense helmet made for officers. It's much lighter, but doesn't offer protection 
for the ears. It has a good suspension system. If you get this model, paint it a 
dark color before using it and you'll be less conspicuous. Our fashion consultants 
suggest anarchy black. 

Construction helmets or "hard hats" run between $8.00 and $10.00, depending 
on the type of suspension system and material used. They are good for women 
because they are extremely lightweight. The aluminum ones dent if struck 
repeatedly and the fiberglass type can crack. Also they offer no ear protection. If 
you prefer one of these you should find a way to attach a chin or neck strap so 
you won't lose it while you run. If you get a hard hat, make sure you remove the 
hard head before you take it home. 

Probably the all-around good deal for the money is the standard M-1 Army issue 
helmet. These vary in quality and price, depending on age and condition. They 
run from $2.00 to $10.00. Make sure the one you get has a liner with webbing 
that fits well or is adjustable and has a chin strap. Their main disadvantage is that 
they are bulky and heavy. 

The snappiest demonstrators use the familiar motorcycle crash helmet. They are 
the highest in price, running from $10.00 to as high as $40.00. Being made of 
fiberglass, they are extremely lightweight. They have a heavy-duty strap built in 
and they can be gotten to fit quite snugly around the head. They offer excellent 
ear protection. The foam rubber insulation is better than a webbing system, and 
will certainly cushion most blows. Being made of fiberglass, a few have been 
known to crack under repeated blows, but that is extremely rare. Most come with 
plastic face guards that offer a little added protection. Get only those with 
removable ones since you might want to make use of a gas mask. 

GAS MASKS 

Ski goggles or the face visor on a crash helmet will protect against Mace but will 
offer no protection against the chemical warfare gasses being increasingly used 
by pigs to dispose crowds. For this protection you'll need a gasmask. All the 
masks discussed give ideal protection against the gasses mentioned in the chart 
if used properly. If you do not have a gas mask, you should at least get a supply 



of surgical masks from a hospital supply store and a plastic bag filled with water 
and a cloth. 

The familiar World War II Army gas mask with the filter in a long nose unit sells 
new (which is the only way gas masks can be sold) for about $5.00. Its 
disadvantages are that it doesn't cover the whole face, is easy to grab and pull 
off and the awkwardly placed filter makes running difficult. The Officer Civil 
Defense unit sells for the same price and overcomes the disadvantages of the 
World War II Army model. Most National Guard units use this type of mask. It 
offers full face protection, is lightweight and the filter canister is conveniently 
located. Also the adjustable straps make for a nice tight fit. The U.S.A. Protective 
Field Combat Mask M9A1 offers the same type protection as the OCD, but costs 
twice as much. Its advantage is that you can get new filter canisters when the 
chemicals in the one you are using becomes ineffective. New filters cost about 
$1 .50. When you buy a mask, be sure and inquire if the filter has replacements. 
To get maximum efficiency out of a mask it needs an active chemical filter. 

The U.S. Navy ND Mark IV Mask is the most effective gas mask available. It has 
replaceable filter canisters and fits snugly to the head. It costs about $12.00. Its 
disadvantage is its dual tube filter system, which is somewhat bulky. Fix it so the 
canister rests on the back of your needs. It's more difficult to grab and easier to 
run. 

When you get your gas mask home, try it out to get the feeling of using it. Make 
sure the fit is good and snug. Purchase an anti-fog cloth for 25 cents where you 
got the mask. Wipe the inside of the eye pieces before wearing to prevent the 
glasses from clouding. Another good reason for wearing a mask is that it offers 
anonymity. Helmets, gas masks and a host of other valuable equipment are 
available at any large Army-Navy surplus store. Kaufman's Surplus and Arms, 
Inc., 623 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10012 is very well stocked. For 75 cents you 
can get their catalogue and order through the mail. It's in New York though and 
probably more expensive than a store in your locale. The surplus stores buy from 
wholesale distributors themselves, who in turn buy directly from the military. If 
you know a soldier or someone who is married to a soldier, they have access to 
the Post Dispensary or PX and can get all sorts of stuff at nothing prices. For 20 
cents you can get an invaluable pamphlet from the Government Printing Office 
called How to Buy Surplus Personal Property. It has a complete list of regional 
surplus wholesalers. The closest one in the Northeast is the Naval Supply 
Center, Building 652, U.S. Naval Base, Philadelphia, Pa. and in Northern 
California, the Naval Supply Center, Building 502, Oakland, California. You can 
order by mail or in person and the prices are very low, even though it isn't as 
good as the stuff our brothers and sisters in the Viet Cong rip-off. 



WALKIE-TALKIES 



You should always go to a demonstration in a small group that stays in contact 
with each other until the demonstration is over. One way to keep in touch is to 
use walkie-talkies. No matter how heavy the vamping gets or how spread out are 
the crowds, you'll be able to communicate with these lightweight effective 
portable devices. The only disadvantage is cost. A half decent unit costs at least 
$18.00. It should have a minimum of 9 transistors and 100 milliwatts, although 
walkie-talkies can go as high as 5 watts and broadcast over 2 miles. Anything 
under 1 watt will not broadcast over V2 mile and considerably less in an area with 
tall buildings. The best unit you can buy runs about $300.00. If you ever deck a 
pig, steal his walkie-talkie even before you take his gun. A good rule is to avoid 
the bargain gyp-joints and go to a place that deals in electronic equipment. 

The important thing to realize about all walkie-talkie networks is that if anyone 
can talk, anyone else can listen and vice versa. This applies to pigs as well as 
us. All walkie-talkies work on the Civilian Band which has 23 channels. The 
cheaper units are preset to channel 9 or 1 1 . The pigs broadcast on higher 
channels, usually channel 22. More expensive sets can operate on alternative 
channels. By removing the front of the set, you can adjust the transmitter and 
receiver to pick up and receive police communications. Don't screw around with 
the inside though, unless you know what you are doing. Allied Radio, 100 N. 
Western Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60680, will send you a good free catalogue, as 
will most large electronic stores. Consider buying a number of sets and ask about 
group discounts. Practice a number of times before you actually use walkie- 
talkies in real action. Develop code names and words just like the pigs do. Once 
you get acquainted with this method of communications in the streets, you'll 
never get cut off from the action. Watch out in close combat though. The pigs 
always try to smash any electronic gear. 

OTHER EQUIPMENT 

A sign can be used to ward off blows. Staple it to a good strong pole that you can 
use as a weapon if need be. Chains make good belts, as do garrisons with the 
buckles sharpened. A tightly rolled-up magazine or newspaper also can be used 
as a defensive weapon. 

Someone in your group should carry a first aid kit. A Medical Emergency 
Aeronautic Kit, which costs about $5.00 has a perfect carrying bag for street 
action. 

Ideally you should visit the proposed site of the demonstration before it actually 
takes place. This way you'll have an idea of the terrain and the type of 
containment the police will be using. Someone in your group should mimeograph 
a map of the immediate vicinity which each person should carry. Alternative 
actions and a rendezvous point should be worked out. Everyone should have two 
numbers written on their arm, a coordination center number and the number of a 
local lawyer or legal defense committee. You should not take your personal 



phone books to demonstrations. If you get busted, pigs can get mighty Nosy 
when it comes to phone books. Any sharp objects can be construed as weapons. 
Women should not wear earrings or other jewelry and should tie their hair up to 
tuck it under a helmet. Wear a belt that you can use as a tourniquet. False teeth 
and contact lenses should be left at home if possible. You can choke on false 
teeth if you receive a sharp blow while running. Contact lenses can complicate 
eye damage if gas or Mace is used. 

If it really looks heavy, you might want to pick up on a lightweight adjustable 
bullet-proof vest, available for $14.95 from Surplus Distributors, Inc., 6279 Van 
Nuys Blvd., Van Nuys, California 91401. Remember what the Boy Scouts say 
when they go camping: "Be Prepared". When you go to demonstrations you 
should be prepared for a lot more than speeches. The pigs will be. 




Trashing 



Ever since the Chicago pigs brutalized the demonstrators in August of 1968, 
young people have been read to vent their rage over Amerika's inhumanity by 
using more daring tactics than basic demonstrations. There is a growing 
willingness to do battle with the pigs in the streets and at the same time to inflict 
property damage. It's not exactly rioting and it's not exactly guerrilla warfare; it 
has come to be called "Trashing." Most trashing is of a primitive nature with the 
pigs having the weapon and strategy advantage. Most trashers rely on quick 
young legs and a nearby rock. By developing simple gang strategy and 
becoming acquainted with some rudimentary weapons and combat techniques, 
the odds can be shifted considerably. 

Remember, pigs have small brains and move slowly. All formations, signals, 
codes and other procedures they use have to be uniform and simplistic. The 
Army Plan for Containment and Control of Civil Disorders, published by the 
Government Printing Office, contains the basic thinking for all city, county and 
state storm troopers. A trip to the library and a look at any basic text in 
criminology will help considerably in gaining an understanding of how pigs act in 
the street. If you study up, you'll find you can, with the aid of a bullhorn or 
properly adjusted walkie-talkie, fuck up many intricate pig formations. "Left flank- 
right turn!" said authoritatively into a bullhorn pointed in the right direction will 
yield all sorts of wild results. 

You should trash with a group using a buddy system to keep track of each other. 
If someone is caught by a pig, other should immediately rush to the rescue if it's 
possible to do so without sustaining too many losses. If an arrest is made, 
someone from your gang should take responsibility for seeing to it that a lawyer 
and bail bread are taken care of. Never abandon a member of your gang. 

Avoid fighting in close quarters. You run less risk by throwing an object than by 
personally delivering the blow with a weapon you hold in your hand. We suppose 
this is what pigs refer to as "duty fighting." All revolutionaries fight dirt in the eyes 
of the oppressors. The British accused the Minutemen of Lexington and Concord 
of fighting dirty by hiding behind trees. The U.S. Army accuses the Viet Cong of 
fighting dirty when they rub a pointed bamboo shoot in infected shit and use it as 
a land mine. Mayor Daley says the Yippies squirted hair spray and used golf 
balls with spikes in them against his innocent blue boys. No one ever accused 
the U.S. of being sneaky for using an airforce in Southeast Asia or the Illinois 
State Attorney's office of fighting dirty when it murdered Fred Hampton and Mark 
Clark while they lay in bed. We say: all power to the dirty fighters! 

WEAPONS FOR STREET FIGHTING 

Spray Cans 



These are a very effective and educating method of property destruction. If a 
liberated zone has been established or you find yourself on a quiet street away 
from the thick of things, pretty up the neighborhood. Slogans and symbols can be 
sprayed on rough surfaces such as brick or concrete walls that are a real bitch to 
remove unless expensive sandblasting is used. 

The Slingshot 

This is probably the ideal street weapon for the swarms of little Davids that are 
out to down the Goliaths of Pigdom. It is cheap, legal to carry, silent, fast-loading 
and any right size rock will do for a missile. You can find them at hobby shops 
and large sporting goods stores, especially those that deal in hunting supplies. 
Wrist-Rocket makes a powerful and accurate slingshot for $2.50. The Whamo 
Sportsman is not as good but half the price. By selecting the right "Y" shaped 
branch, you can fashion a home-made one by using a strip of rubber cut from the 
inner tube of a tue as the sling. A few hours of shooting stones at cans in the 
back yard or up on the roof will make you marksman enough for those fat bank 
windows and even fatter pigs. 

Slings 

A sling is a home-made weapon consisting of two lengths of heavy-duty cord 
each attached securely at one end to a leather patch that serves as a pocket to 
cradle the rock. Place the rock in the pouch and grab the two pieces of cord 
firmly in your hand. Whirl the rock round and round until gravity holds it firmly in 
the pouch. When you feel you have things under control, let one end of the cord 
go and the rock will fly out at an incredible speed. You should avoid using the 
sling in a thick crowd (rooftop shooting is best). Practice is definitely needed to 
gain any degree of accuracy. 

Boomerangs 

The boomerang is a neat weapon for street fighting and is as easy to master as 
the Frisbee. There is a great psychological effect in using exotic weapons such 
as this. You can buy one at large hobby stores. On the East Coast you can get 
one from Sportscraft, Bergenfield, New Jersey, for $2.69, and on the West Coast 
from Whamo, 835 El Monte St., San Gabriel, Calif., for $1.10. 

Flash Guns 

Electric battery-operated flash guns are available that will blind a power-crazy 
pig, thus distracting him long enough to rescue a captured comrade. Check out 
camping and boating supply stores. 



Tear Gas and Mace 



Personalized tear gas and mace dispensers are available for self-defense 
against muggers. Well, isn't a pig just an extra vicious mugger? Write J. P. Darby, 
8813 New Hyde Park, New York, N.Y. 1 1040 for a variety of types and prices. 

Tear gas shells are available for 12 gauge shotguns and .38 Special handguns, 
but it is highly inadvisable to bring guns to street actions. A far better weapon is a 
specially built projection device that shoots tear gas shells. Hercules Gas- 
Munitions Corp., 5501 No. Broadway, Chicago, III., sells compact units complete 
with cartridges for $6.95 that will fire up to 20 feet. Penguin Associates, Inc., 
Pennsylvania Avenue, Malvern, Penn., also has a variety of tear-gas propellant 
devices including a combination tear gas-billyclub item. All these companies will 
supply a catalogue and price list on request. Some states have laws against 
civilian use of tear gas devices. New York is one of them, and unfortunately 
these companies will not ship to states that forbid usage. If you want any of these 
items, and your state has restrictions, have a sister or brother in a neighboring 
state order for you. Just latching onto these catalogues can be a trip and a half in 
terms of getting your imagination hopping. For example Raid, Black Flag and 
other insecticides shoot a 7 to 10 foot stream that burns the eyes. You can also 
dissolve Drano in water and squirt it from an ordinary plastic water pistol. That 
makes a highly effective defensive weapon. A phony letterhead of a Civil 
Defense unit will help in getting heavier anti-personal weapons of a defensive 
nature. 

Anti-Tire Weapons 

Don't believe all those bullshit tire ads that make tires seem like the Superman of 
the streets. Roofing nails spread out on the street are effective in stopping a 
patrol car. A nail sticking out from a strong piece of wood wedged under a rear 
tire will work as effectively as a bazooka. An ice pick will do the trick repeatedly 
but you've got to have a strong arm to strike home. Sugar in the gas tank of a pig 
vehicle will really fuck-up the engine. 

Authentic Pig Game 

If you really get into it, you'll probably want to be sd heavily prepared for trashing 
as are the pigs. Wouldn't you just know that the largest supplier of equipment to 
police in the world is in Chicago. Kale's, 550 W. Roosevelt Rd., Chicago, III. 
60607, will send you, on request, the most complete catalogue you can get for 
trashing. Actual police uniforms, super-riot helmets, persuaders chemical mace, 
a knuckle sap, which is a glove with powdered lead, billy clubs, secret holsters, a 
three-in-one mob stick that spits Mace, emits an electric shock and allows you to 
club to death a charging rhinoceros. You can also get the latest in handcuffs and 
other security devices. This catalogue is a must for the love-child of the 70's. If 
we want to get high we're going to have to fight our way up. 



KNIFE FIGHTING 



Probably one of the most favored street weapons of all time is the good old 
"shiv," "blade," "toe-jabber" or whatever you choose to call a good sticker. 
Remembering that today's pig is tomorrow's bacon, it's good to know a few 
handy slicing tips. The first thing to learn is the local laws regarding the 
possession of knives. The laws on possession are of the "Catch-22" vagueness. 
Cops can arrest you for having a small pocket knife and claim you have a 
concealed and deadly weapon in your possession. Here, as in most cases of law, 
it's not what you are doing, it's who's doing the what that counts. All areas, 
however, usually have a limit on length such as blades under 4" or 6" are legal 
and anything over that length concealed on a person can be considered illegal. 
Asking some hip lawyers can help here. 

Unfortunately, the best fighting knives are illegal. Switchblades (and stilettos) 
because they can so quickly spring into operation, are great weapons that are 
outlawed in all states. If you want to risk the consequences, however, you can 
readily purchase these weapons once you learn how to contact the criminal 
underworld or in most foreign countries. If both of these fail, go to any pawnshop, 
look in the window, and take our choice of lethal, illegal knives. 

A flat gravity knife, available in most army surplus and pawn shops would be the 
best type available in regular over-the-counter buying. It's flat style makes for 
easy concealment and comfort when kept in a pocket or boot. It can be greased 
and the rear "heel" of the blade can be filed down to make it fly open with a flick 
of the wrist. A little practice here will be very useful. 

Most inexperienced knife fighters use a blade incorrectly. Having seen too many 
Jim Bowies slash their way through walls of human flesh, they persist in carrying 
on this inane tradition. Overhead and uppercut slashes are a waste of energy 
and blade power. The correct method is to hold the knife in a natural, firm grip 
and jab straight ahead at waist level with the arm extending full length each time. 
This fencing style allows for the maximum reach of arm and blade. By 
concentrating the point of the knife directly at the target, you make defense 
against such an attack difficult. Work out with this jabbing method in front of a 
mirror and in a few days you'll get it down pretty well. 





How to tie a knot with your toes 



UNARMED DEFENSE 



Let's face it, when it comes to trashing in the streets, our success is going to 
depend on our cunning and speed rather than our strength and power. Our side 
is all quarterbacks, and the pigs have nothing but linemen. They are clumsy, 
slobbish brutes that would be lost without their guns, clubs and toy whistles. 
When one grabs you for an arrest, you can with a little effort, make him let go. In 
the confusion of all the street action, you will then be able to manage your 
getaway. 

There are a variety of defensive twists and pulls that are easy to master by 
reading a good, easily understandable book on the subject, such as George 
Hunter's How To Defend Yourself (see appendix). If a pig grabs you by the wrist 
you can break the grip by twisting against his thumb. Try this on yourself by 
grabbing one wrist with your hand. See how difficult it is to hold someone who 
works against the thumb. If he grabs you around the waist or neck, you can grab 
his thumbs or another finger and sharply bend it backwards. By concentrating all 
your energy on one little finger, you can inflict pain and cause the grip to be 
broken. 

There are a variety of points on the body where a firm amount of pressure 
skillfully directed will induce severe pain. A grip, for example, can be broken by 
jabbing your finger firmly between the pig's knuckles. (Nothing like chopped 
pigknuckles.) Feel directly under your chin in back of the jawbone until your 
finger rests in the V area, press firmly upward and backward towards the center 
of the head. There is also a very vulnerable spot right behind the ear lobe. Stick 
your fingers there and see. Get the point! 

In addition to pressure points, there are places in the body where a sharp, well- 
directed whack with the side of a rigidly held palm can easily disable a person. 
Performed by an expert, such a blow can even be lethal. Try making such a rigid 
palm and practice these judo chops. The fist is a ridiculous weapon to use. It's 
fleshy, the blow is distributed over too wide an area to have any real effect and 
the knuckles break easily. You will have to train yourself to use judo chops 
instinctively, but it will prove quite worthwhile if you are ever in trouble. A good 
place to aim for is directly in the center of the chest cavity at its lowest point. 
Draw a straight line up about six inches starting from your belly button, and you 
can feel the point. The Adam's Apple in the center of the neck and the back of 
the neck at the top of the spinal column are also extremely vulnerable spots. With 
the side of your palm, press firmly the spot directly below your nose and above 
your upper lip. You can easily get an idea of what a short, forceful chop in this 
area would do. The side of the head in front of the ear is also a good place to aim 
your blow. 



In addition to jabs, chops, twists, squeezes and bites, you ought to gain some 
mastery of kneeing and kicking. If you are being held in close and facing the 
porker, the old familiar knee-in-the-nuts will produce remarkable results. A 
feinting motion with the head before the knee is delivered will produce a reflexive 
reaction from your opponent that will leave his groin totally unprotected. Ouch! 

Whether he has you from the front or the back, he is little prepared to defend 
against a skillfully aimed kick. The best way is to forcefully scrape the side of 
your shoe downward along the shinbone, beginning just below the knee and 
ending with a hard stomp on the instep of the foot. Just try this with the side of 
your hand and you will get an idea of the damage you can inflict with this scrape 
and stomp method. Another good place to kick and often the only spot accessible 
is the side of the knee. Even a half successful blow here will topple the biggest of 
honkers. Any of these easy to learn techniques of unarmed self defense will fulfill 
the old nursery rhyme that goes: 

Catch a piggy by the toe 
When he hollers 
Let him go 
Out pops Y-O-U 



GENERAL STRATEGY RAP 

The guideline in trashing is to try and do as much property destruction as 
possible without getting caught or hurt. The best buildings to trash in terms of not 
alienating too many of those not yet clued into revolutionary violence, are the 
most piggy symbols of violence you can find. Banks, large corporations, 
especially those that participate heavily in supporting the U.S. armed forces, 
federal buildings, courthouses, police stations, and Selective Service centers are 
all good targets. On campuses, buildings that are noted for warfare research and 
ROTC training are best. When it comes to automobiles, choose only police 
vehicles and very expensive cars such as Lamborghinis and Iso Grifos. Every 
rock or molotov cocktail thrown should make a very obvious political point. 
Random violence produces random propaganda results. Why waste even a 
rock? 

When you know there is going to be a rough street scene developing, don't play 
into the pig's strategy. Spread the action out. Help waste the enemy's numbers. 
You and the other members of your group should already have a target or two in 
mind that will make for easy trashing. If you don't have one, setting fires in trash 
cans and ringing fire alarms will help provide a cover for other teams that do 
have objectives picked out. Putting out street lights with rocks also helps the 
general infusion. 



After a few tries at trashing, you'll begin to overcome your fears, learn what to 
expect from both the pigs and your comrades, and develop your own street 
strategy. Nothing works like practice in actual street conditions. Get your head 
together and you'll become a pro. Don't make the basic mistake of just naively 
floating into the area. Don't think "rally" or "demonstration," think "WAR" and 
"Battle Zone." Keep your eyes and ears open. Watch for mistakes made by 
members of your gang and those made by other comrades. Watch for blunders 
by the police. In street fighting, every soldier should think like a general. 
Workshops should be organized right after an action to discuss the strength and 
weaknesses of techniques and strategies used. Avoid political bullshit at such 
raps. Regard them as military sessions. Persons not versed in the tactics of 
revolution usually have nothing worthwhile to say about the politics of revolution. 

People's Chemistry 

STINK BOMB 

You can purchase buteric acid at any chemical supply store for "laboratory 
experiments." It can be thrown or poured directly in an area you think already 
stinks. A small bottle can be left uncapped behind a door that opens into the 
target room. When a person enters they will knock over the bottle, spilling the 
liquid. Called a "Froines," by those in the know, an ounce of buteric acid can go a 
long way. Be careful not to get it on your clothing. A home-made stink bomb can 
be made by mixing a batch of egg whites, Drano, (sodium hydroxide) and water. 
Let the mixture sit for a few days in a capped bottle before using. 

SMOKE BOMB 

Sometimes it becomes strategically correct to confuse the opposition and provide 
a smoke screen to aid an escape. A real home-made stroke bomb can be made 
by combining four parts sugar to six parts saltpeter (available at all chemical 
supply stores). This mixture must then be heated over a very low flame. It will 
blend into a plastic substance. When this starts to gel, remove from the heat and 
allow the plastic to cool. Embed a few wooden match heads into the mass while 
it's still pliable and attach a fuse.* 

The smoke bomb itself is a non-explosive and non-flame-producing, so no 
extreme safety requirements are needed. About a pound of the plastic will 
produce thick enough smoke to fill a city block. Just make sure you know which 
way the wind is blowing. Weathermen-women! If you're not the domestic type, 
you can order smoke flares (yellow or black) for $2.00 a flare [12 inch] from Time 
Square Stage Lighting Co., 318 West 47th Street, New York, NY 10036. 

*You can make a good homemade fuse by dipping a string in glue and then 
rolling it lightly in gunpowder. When the glue hardens, wrap the string tightly and 
neatly with scotch tape. This fuse can be used in a variety of ways. Weight it on 



one end and drop a rock into the tank of a pig vehicle. Light the other end and 
run like hell. 

CBW 

LACE (Lysergic Acid Crypto-Ethelene) can be made by mixing LSD with DMSO, 
a high penetrating agent, and water. Sprayed from an atomizer or squirted from a 
water pistol, the purple liquid will send any pig twirling into the Never-Never Land 
of chromosome damage. It produces an involuntary pelvic action in cops that 
resembles fucking. Remember when Mace runs out, turn to Lace. 

How about coating thin darts in LSD and shooting them from a Daisy Air Pellet 
Gun? Guns and darts are available at hobby and sports shops. Sharpening the 
otherwise dull darts will help in turning on your prey. 



MOLOTOV (FOR PLACING) 




4 CIGARETTE OR FUSE 



FUSE 

^ CHERRY BOMB 

* GASOLINE 
^STYROFOAM 



MOLOTOV (FOR THROWING) 



GAS-SOAKED TAMPA X ► 
RUBBER BANDS* 




MOLOTOV COCKTAIL 



Molotov cocktails are a classic street fighting weapon served up around the 
world. If you've never made one, you should try it the next time you are in some 
out-of-the-way barren place just to wipe the fear out of your mind and know that it 
works. Fill a thin-walled bottle half full with gasoline. Break up a section of 
styrofoam (cups made of this substance work fine) and let it sit in the gasoline for 
a few days. The mixture should be slushy and almost fill the bottle. The 
styrofoam spreads the flames around and regulates the burning. The mixture has 
nearly the same properties as napalm. Soap flakes (not detergents) can be 
substituted for styrofoam. Rubber cement and sterno also work. In a pinch, plain 
gasoline will do nicely, but it burns very fast. A gasoline-kerosene mixture is 
preferred by some folks. 

Throwing, although by far not the safest method, is sometimes necessary. The 
classic technique of stuffing a rag in the neck of a bottle, lighting and tossing is 
foolish. Often gas fumes escape from the bottle and the mixture ignites too soon, 
endangering the thrower. If you're into throwing, the following is a much safer 
method: Once the mixture is prepared and inside the bottle, cap it tightly using 
the original cap or a suitable cork. Then wash the bottle off with rubbing alcohol 
and wipe it clean. Just before you leave to strike a target, take a strip of rag or a 
tampax and dip it in gasoline. Wrap this fuse in a small plastic baggie and attach 
the whole thing to the neck of the capped bottle with the aid of several rubber 
bands. When you are ready to toss, use a lighter to ignite the baggie. Pall back 
your arm and fling it as soon as the tampax catches fire. This is a very safe 
method if followed to the letter. The bottle must break to ignite. Be sure to throw it 
with some force against a hard surface. 

Naturally, an even safer method is to place the firebomb in a stationary position 
and rig up a timing fuse. Cap tightly and wipe with alcohol as before. The alcohol 
wipe not only is a safety factor, but it eliminates tell-tale fingerprints in case the 
Molotov doesn't ignite. Next, attach an ashcan fire cracker (M-80) or a cherry 
bomb to the side of the bottle using epoxy glue. A fancier way is to punch a hole 
in the cap and pull the fuse of the cherry bomb up through the hole before you 
seal the bottle. A dab of epoxy will hold the fuse in place and insure the seal. A 
firecracker fuse ignites quickly so something will have to be rigged that will deal 
the action enough to make a clean getaway. 

When the firebomb is placed where you want it, light up a non-filter cancerette. 
Take a few puffs (being sure not to inhale the vile fumes) to get it going and work 
the unlighted end over the fuse of the firecracker. This will provide a delay of 
from 5 to 15 minutes. To use this type of fuse successfully, there must be enough 
air in the vicinity so the flame won't go out. A strong wind would not be good 
either. When the cancerette burns down, it sets off the firecracker which in turn 
explodes and ignites the mixture. The flames shoot out in the direction opposite 
to where you attach the firecracker, thus allowing you to aim the firebomb at the 



most flammable material. With the firecracker in the cap, the flames spread 
downward in a halo. The cancerette fuse can also be used with a book of 
matches to ignite a pool of gasoline or a trash can. Stick the unlighted end 
behind the row of match heads and close the cover. A firecracker attached to a 
gallon jug of red paint and set off can turn an office into total abstract art. 

Commercial fuses are available in many hobby stores. Dynamite fuses are 
excellent and sold in most rural hardware stores. A good way to make a 
homemade fuse is described above under the Smoke Bomb section. By adding 
an extra few feet of fuse to the device and then attaching the lit cancerette fuse, 
you add an extra measure of caution. It is most important to test every type of 
fuse device you plan to use a number of times before the actual hit. Some 
experimentation will allow you to standardize the results. If you really want to get 
the job done right and have the time, place several molotov cocktails in a group 
and rig two with fuses (in case one goes out). When one goes, they all go . . 
. BAROOOOOOOOOOM ! 



dize the results. If you really warn 10 get 
righi and have the time, place several 
:ails in a group and rig two with fuses (in 
3es out). When one goes, they all 
OOOOOOOOM! 




s simplest bombs to make is the converted 
will provide some bang and a widely dis- 
>f jellied fire, Remove the lid from a stand- 
ally purchased can and punch a hold in the 

STERNO BOMB 

One of the simplest bombs to make is the converted sterno can. It will provide 
some bang and a widely dispersed spray of jellied fire. Remove the lid from a 
standard, commercially purchased can and punch a hold in the center big 
enough for the firecracker fuse. Take a large spoonful of jelly out of the center to 
make room for the firecracker. Insert the firecracker and pull the fuse up through 
the hole in the lid. When in place, cement around the hole with epoxy glue. Put 
some more glue around the rim of the can and reseal the lid. Wipe the can and 
wash off excess with rubbing alcohol. A cancerette fuse should be used. The can 
could also be taped around a bottle with Molotov mixture and ignited. 




EPOXY GLUE SEALER 



CHERRY BOMB 



4COTTON PACKING 



■ * * 



POWDER 




Throwing these bombs 



AEROSOL BOMB 



You can purchase smokeless gunpowder at most stores where guns and 
ammunition are sold. It is used for reloading bullets. The back of shotgun shells 
can be opened and the powder removed. Black powder is more highly explosive 
but more difficult to come by. A graduate chemist can make or get all you'll need. 
If you know one that can be trusted, go over a lot of shit with him. Try turning him 
on to learning how to make "plastics" which are absolutely the grooviest 
explosive available. The ideal urban guerrilla weapons are these explosive 
plastic compounds. 

The neat homemade bomb that really packs a wallop can be made from a 
regular aerosol can that is empty. Remove the nozzle and punch in the nipple 
area on the top of the can. Wash the can out with rubbing alcohol and let dry. Fill 
it gently and lovingly with an explosive powder. Add a layer of cotton to the top 
and insert a cherry bomb fuse. Use epoxy glue to hold the fuse in place and seal 
the can. The can should be wiped clean with rubbing alcohol. Another safety hint 
to remember is never store the powder and your fuses or other ignition material 
together. Powder should always be treated with a healthy amount of respect. No 
smoking should go on in the assembling area and no striking of hard metals that 
might produce a spark. Use your head and you'll get to keep it. 

PIPE BOMBS 

Perhaps the most widely used homemade concussion bombs are those made 
out of pipe. Perfected by George Metesky, the renown New York Mad Bomber, 
they are deadly, safe, easy to assemble, and small enough to transport in your 
pocket. You want a standard steel pipe (two inches in diameter is a good size) 
that is threaded on both ends so you can cap it. The length you use depends on 
how big an explosion is desired. Sizes between 3-10 inches in length have been 
successfully employed. Make sure both caps screw on tightly before you insert 
the powder. The basic idea to remember is that a bomb is simply a hot fire 
burning very rapidly in a tightly confined space. The rapidly expanding gases 
burst against the walls of the bomb. If they are trapped in a tightly sealed iron 
pipe, when they finally break out, they do so with incredible force. If the bomb 
itself is placed in a somewhat enclosed area like a ventilation shaft, doorway or 
alleyway, it will in turn convert this larger area into a "bomb" and increase the 
over-all explosion immensely. 



ii you are using a j irecrauKer iiise, msfri me iucuid^i 
pui) the fuse through and epoxy it into place securely. If 

* 



CAPS 



EPOXY 




ASHCAM FUSE 



~ U ' * * - * w& EST Ii* ■ *♦ *'—"' ** " Il 



POWDER 



THICK WALLS 



1 



TH INNER WALLS 

FUSE 
EPOXY 



POWDER 



310 INCHES IN LENGTH 
{USE MORE THAN ONE FUSE IF YOU DON'T 
HAVH A DETONATOR ) 

vou are usine lone fusing either with a detonator 

When you have the right pipe and both caps selected, drill a hole in the side of 
the pipe (before powder is inserted) big enough to pull the fuse through. If you 
are using a firecracker fuse, insert the firecracker, pull the fuse through and 
epoxy it into place securely. If you are using long fusing either with a detonator 
(difficult to come by) timing device or a simple cancerette fuse, drill two holes and 



run two lines of fuse into the pipe. When you have the fuse rigged to the pipe, 
you are ready to add the powder. Cape one end snugly, making sure you haven't 
trapped any grains of powder in the threads. Wipe the device with rubbing 
alcohol and you're ready to blast off. 

A good innovation is to grind down one half of the pipe before you insert the 
powder. This makes the walls of one end thinner than the walls of the other end. 
When you place the bomb, the explosion, following the line of least resistance, 
will head in that direction. You can do this with ordinary grinding tools available in 
any hardware or machine shop. Be sure not to have the powder around when 
you are grinding the pipe, since sparks are produced. Woodstock Nation contains 
instructions for more pipe bombs and a neat timing device (see pages 115-117). 

GENERAL BOMB STRATEGY 

This section is not meant to be a handbook on explosives. Anyone who wishes to 
become an expert in the field can procure a number of excellent books on the 
subject catalogued in the Appendix. In bombing, as in trashing, the same general 
strategy in regard to the selection of targets applies. Never use anti-personnel 
shrapnel bombs. Always be careful in placing the devices to keep them away 
from glass windows and as far away from the front of the building as possible. 
Direct them away from any area in which there might be people. Sophisticated 
electric timers should be used only by experts in demolitions. Operate in the wee 
hours of the night and be careful that you don't injure a night watchman or guard. 
Telephone in warnings before the bomb goes off. The police record all calls to 
emergency numbers and occasionally people have been traced down by the use 
of a voice-o-graph. The best way to avoid detection is by placing a huge wad of 
chewed up gum on the roof of your mouth before you talk. Using a cloth over the 
phone is not good enough to avoid detection. Be as brief as possible and always 
use a pay phone. 

When you get books from companies or libraries dealing with explosives or 
guerrilla warfare, use a phony name and address. Always do this if you obtain 
chemicals from a chemical supply house. These places are being increasingly 
watched by the F.B.I. Store your material and literature in a safe cool place and 
above all, keep your big mouth shut! 



Now if the head is bleeding, do you tighten a tourni- 
quet around the neck? 



First Aid For Street Fighters 

Without intending to spook you, we think it is becoming increasingly important for 
as many people as possible to develop basic first aid skills. As revolutionary 
struggle intensifies, so will the number and severity of injuries increase. Reliance 
on establishment medical facilities will become risky. Hospitals that border on 
"riot" areas are used by police to apprehend suspects. All violence-induced 
injuries treated by establishment doctors might be reported. Knife and gunshot 
wounds in all states by law must be immediately phoned in for investigation. At 
times a victim has no choice but to run such risks. If you can, use a phony name, 
but everyone should know the location of sympathetic doctors. 

Chaos resulting from the gassing, clubbing and shooting associated with a police 
riot also makes personal first aid important. Most demonstrations have medical 
teams that run with the people and staff mobile units, but often these become the 
target of assault by the more vicious pigs. Also, in the confusion, there is usually 
too much work for the medical teams. Everyone must take responsibility for 
everyone else if we are to survive in the streets. If you spot someone lying 
unconscious or badly injured, take it upon yourself to help the victim. Immediately 
raise your arm or wave your Nation flag and shout for a medic. If the person is 
badly hurt, it is best not to move him, or her, but if there is the risk of more harm 
or the area is badly gassed, the victim should be moved to safety. Try to be as 
gentle as possible. Get some people to help you. 

WHAT TO DO 

Your attitude in dealing with an injured person is extremely important. Don't panic 
at the sight of blood. Most bloody injuries look far worse than they are. Don't get 
nervous if the victim is unconscious. If you're not able to control your own fear 
about treating someone, call for another person. It helps to attend a few first aid 
classes to overcome these fears in practice sessions. 

When you approach the victim, identify yourself. Calmly, but quickly figure out 
what's the matter. Check to see if the person is alive by feeling for the pulse. 
There are a number of spots to check if the blood is circulating, under the chin 
near the neck, the wrists, and ankles are the most common. Get in the habit of 
feeling a normal pulse. A high pulse (over 100 per minute) usually indicates 
shock. A low pulse indicates some kind of injury to the heart or nervous system. 
Massaging the heart can often restore the heartbeat, especially if its loss is due 
to a severe blow to the chest. Mouth-to-mouth resuscitation should be used if the 
victim is not breathing. Both these skills can be mastered in a first aid course in 
less than an hour and should become second nature to every street fighter. 

When it comes to dealing with bleeding or possible fractures, enlisting the 
victim's help as well as adopting a firm but calm manner will be very reassuring. 
This is important to avoid shock. Shock occurs when there is a serious loss of 



blood and not enough is being supplied to the brain. The symptoms are high 
pulse rate; cold, clammy, pale skin; trembling or unconsciousness. Try to keep 
the patient warm with blankets or coats. If a tremendous amount of blood has 
been lost, the victim may need a transfusion. Routine bleeding can be stopped 
by firm direct pressure over the source of bleeding for 5 to 10 minutes. If an 
artery has been cut and bleeding is severe, a tourniquet will be needed. Use a 
belt, scarf or torn shirtsleeve. Tie the tourniquet around the arm or leg directly 
above the bleeding area and tighten it until the bleeding stops. Do not loosen the 
tourniquet. Wrap the injured limb in a cold wet towel or ice if available and move 
the person to a doctor or hospital before irreparable damage can occur. Don't 
panic, though, you have about six hours. 

A painful blow to a limb is best treated with an ice pack and elevation of the 
extremity by resting it on a pillow or rolled-up jacket. A severe blow to the chest 
or side can result in a rib fracture which produces sharp pains when breathing 
and/or coughing up blood. Chest X-rays will eventually be needed. Other internal 
injuries can occur from sharp body blows such as kidney injuries. They are 
usually accompanied by nausea, vomiting, shock and persistent abdominal pain. 
If you feel a bad internal injury has occurred, get prompt professional help. 

Head injuries have to be attended to with more attention than other parts of the 
body. Treat them by stopping the bleeding with direct pressure. They should be 
treated before other injuries as they more quickly can cause shock. Every head 
injury should be X-rayed and the injured person should be watched for the next 
24 hours as complications can develop hours after the injury was sustained. After 
a severe blow to the head, be on the look-out for excessive sleepiness or 
difficulty in waking. Sharp and persistent headaches, vomiting and nausea, 
dizziness or difficulty maintaining balance are all warning signs. If they occur 
after a head injury, call a doctor. 

If a limb appears to be broken or fractured, improvise a splint before moving the 
victim. Place a stiff backing behind the limb such as a board or rolled-up 
magazine and wrap both with a bandage. Try to avoid moving the injured limb as 
this can lead to complicating the fracture. Every fracture must be X-rayed to 
evaluate the extent of the injury and subsequent treatment. 

Bullet wounds to the abdomen, chest or head, if loss of consciousness occurs 
are extremely dangerous and must be seen by a doctor immediately. If the 
wound occurs in the limb, treat as you would any bleeding with direct pressure 
bandage and tourniquet only if nothing else will stop the bleeding. 

If you expect trouble, every person going to a street scene should have a few 
minimum supplies in addition to those mentioned in the section on 
Demonstrations for protection. A handful of bandaids, gauze pads (4x4), an ace 
bandage (3 inch width), and a roll of 1/2 inch adhesive tape can all easily fit in 
your pocket. A plastic bag with cotton balls pre-soaked in water will come in 



handy in a variety of situations where gas is being used, as will a small bottle of 
mineral oil. You should write the name, phone number and address of the 
nearest movement doctor on your arm with a ballpoint pen. Your arm's getting 
pretty crowded, isn't it? If someone is severely injured, it may be better to save 
their life by taking them to a hospital, even though that means probable capture 
for them, rather than try to treat it yourself. However, do not confuse the police 
with the hospital. Many injured people have been finished off by the porkers, and 
that's no joke. It is usually better to treat a person yourself rather than let the pigs 
get them, unless they have ambulance equipment right there and don't seem 
vicious. Even then, they will often wait until they get two or three victims before 
making a trip to the hospital. 

If you have a special medical problem, such as being a diabetic or having a 
penicillin allergy, you should wear a medi-alert tag around your neck indicating 
your condition. Every person who sees a lot of street action should have a 
tetanus shot at least once in every five years. 

Know just this much, and it will help to keep down serious injuries at 
demonstrations. A few lessons in a first aid class at one of the Free Universities 
or People's Clinics will go a long way in providing you with the confidence and 
skill needed in the street. 

MEDICAL COMMITTEES 

Here is a partial list of some Medical Committees for Human Rights. They will be 
glad to give you first aid instructions and often organize medical teams to work 
demonstrations. A complete list is available from the Chicago office. 

. BALTIMORE, MARYLAND, 21215 - 6012 Wallis Ave. 

. BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA, 94609 - 663 Alcartz 

. BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA, 35205 - 2122 9th Ave. South 

. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS -1512 E. 55th St. 

. CLEVELAND, OHIO, 44112 -Outpost, 13017 Euclid Ave. 

. DETROIT, MICHIGAN, 48207 - 1300 E. Lafayette 

. HARTFORD, CONN., 061 1 2 - 1 61 Ridgefield St. 

. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. - PO Box 2463, Sepulveda, Calif. 91343 (mail) 

. NASHVILLE, TENN., 37204 - 3301 Leland Land 

. NEW HAVEN, CONN., - 30 Bryden Terrace, Hamden, Conn. 06514 (mail) 

. NEW ORLEANS LA., 701 30 - 623 Bourbon St. 

. NEW YORK, NY 10014- 15 Charles St. 

. PHILADELPHIA, PA., 191 19 - 6705 Lincoln Drive 

. PITTSBURGH, PA., 15222 - 617 Empire Building 

. SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF., 94115-2519 Pacific Ave. 

. SYRACUSE, NY, 13210 - 931 Comstock Ave. 

. WASHINGTON, D.C. - 3410 Taylor St., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015 (mail) 



Hip-Pocket Law 



LEGAL ADVICE 

Any discussion about what to do while waiting fur the lawyer has to be qualified 
by pointing out that from the moment of arrest through the court appearances, 
cops tend to disregard a defendant's rights. Nonetheless, you should play it 
according to the book whenever possible as you might get your case bounced 
out on a technicality. When you get busted, rule number one is that you have the 
right to remain silent. We advise that you give only your name and address. 
There is a legal dispute about whether or not you are obligated under the law to 
do even that, but most lawyers feel you should. The address can be that of a 
friend if you're uptight about the pigs knowing where you live. 

When the pigs grab you, chances are they are going to insult you, rough you up 
a little and maybe even try to plant some evidence on you. Try to keep your cool. 
Any struggle on your part, even lying on the street limp, can be considered 
resisting arrest. Even if you beat the original charge, you can be found guilty of 
resisting and receive a prison sentence. Often if the pigs beat you, they will say 
that you attacked them and generally charge you with assault. 

If you are stopped in the street on suspicion (which means you're black or have 
long hair), the police have the right to pat you down to see if you are carrying a 
weapon. They cannot search you unless they place you under arrest. 
Technically, this can only be done in the police station where they have the right 
to examine your possessions. Thus, if you are in a potential arrest situation, you 
should refrain from carrying dope, sharp objects that can be classified as a 
weapon, and the names and phone numbers of people close to you, like your 
dealer, your local bomb factory, and your friends underground. 

Forget about talking your way out of it or escaping once you're in the car or 
paddy wagon. In the police station, insist on being allowed to call your lawyer. 
Getting change might be a problem so you should always have a few dimes 
hidden. Since many cases are dismissed because of this, you'll generally be 
allowed to make some calls, but it might take a few hours. Call a close friend and 
tell him to get all the cash that can be quickly raised and head down to the court 
house. Usually the police will let you know where you'll be taken. If they don't, 
just tell your friend what precinct you're being held at, and he can call the central 
police headquarters and find out what court you'll be appearing in. Ask your 
friend to also call a lawyer which you also should do if you get another phone 
call. Hang up and dial a lawyer or defense committee that has been set up for 
demonstrations. The lawyer will either come to the station or meet you in court 
depending on the severity of the charge and the likelihood you'll be beaten in the 
station. When massive demonstrations are occurring where a number of busts 



are anticipated, it's best to have lawyers placed in police stations in the 
immediate vicinity. 

The lawyer will want to know as many details as possible of the case so try and 
concentrate on remembering a number of things since the pigs aren't going to let 
you take notes. If you can, remember the name and badge number of the fink 
that busted you. Sometimes they'll switch arresting officers on you. Remember 
the time, location of the bust and any potential witnesses that the lawyer might be 
able to contact. 

If you are unable to locate a lawyer, don't panic, the court will assign you one at 
the time of the arraignment. Legal Aid lawyers are free and can usually do as 
good a job as a private lawyer at an arraignment. Often they can do better, as the 
judge might set a lower bail if he sees you can't afford a private lawyer. The 
arraignment is probably the first place you'll find out what the charges are against 
you. There will also be a court date set and bail established. The amount of bail 
depends on a variety of factors ranging from previous convictions to the judge's 
hangover. It can be put up in collateral, i.e., a bank book, or often there is a cash 
alternative offered which amounts to about 10% of the total bail. 

Your friend should be in the court with some cash (at least a hundred dollars is 
recommended). For very high bail, there are the bail bondsmen in the area of the 
courthouse who will cover the bail for a fee, generally not to exceed 5%. You will 
need some signatures of solid citizens to sign the bail papers and perhaps put up 
some collateral. 

Once you get bailed out, you should contact a private lawyer, preferably one that 
has experience with your type of case. If you are low on bread, check out one of 
the community or movement legal groups in your area. It is not advisable to keep 
the legal aid lawyer beyond the arraignment if at all possible. 

If you're in a car or in your home, the police do not have a right to search the 
premises without a search warrant or probable cause. Do not consent to any 
search without a warrant, especially if there are witnesses around who can hear 
you. Without your consent, the pigs must prove probable cause in the court. It's 
unbelievable the number of defendants that not only come naked, but pull their 
own pants down. Make the cops kick in the door or break open the trunk 
themselves. You are under no obligation to assist them in collecting evidence, 
and helping them weakens your case. 

LAWYERS GROUPS 

National Lawyers Guild 



The "Guild" provides various free legal services especially for political prisoners. 
If you have any legal hassles, call and see if they'll help you. You can call the one 
nearest you and get the name of a good lawyer in your area. 



. BOSTON - 70 Charles St. 

. DETROIT - 5705 N. Woodward St. 

. LOS ANGELES - c/o Haymarket, 507 N. Hoover St. 

. NEW YORK - 1 Hudson St. 

. SAN FRANCISCO - 197 Steiner St. 

Outside of these areas, there are no offices, but people to contact in the following 
cities are: 

. FLINT, MICH., Carl Bekofske, 1003 Church St. 

. PHILADELPHIA, PA. - A. Harry Levitan, 1412 Fox Building 

. WASHINGTON, D.C. - S. David Levy, 2812 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. 

American Civil Liberties Union 

The ACLU is not as radical as the Guild, but will in rare instances provide good 
lawyers for a variety of civil liberty cases such as censorship, denial of permits to 
demonstrations, and the like. But beware of their tendency to win the legal point 
while losing the case. Here is a list of some of their larger offices. 

. ALABAMA - Box 1972, University, Alabama 35486 

. CALIFORNIA - ACLU of Northern California, 503 Market St., 

. SAN FRANCISCO, CA - 94105 (EX 2-4692) 

. COLORADO - 1452 Pennsylvania St., Denver, Colorado 80203 (303-TA5- 
2930) 

. GEORGIA - 5 Forsyth St. N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30303 (404-523-5398) 
. ILLINOIS - 6 S. Clark, Chicago, Illinois 60603 (312-236-5564) 
. MICHIGAN - 234 State St., Detroit, Mich. 48226 (313-961-4662) 
. MONTANA - 2707 Glenwood Land, Billings, Montana 59102 (406-651- 
2328) 

. NEW MEXICO - 131 La Vega S.W., Albuquerque, New Mexico 87105 
(505-877-5286) 

. NEW YORK - 156 Fifth Ave., New York, NY 10010 (212-WA9-6076) 

. NORTH DAKOTA - Ward County (Minot), Box 1000, Minot, North Dakota 

58701 (702-838-0381) 
. OHIO - Suite 200, 203 E. Broad St., Columbus, Ohio 43215 
. WASHINGTON, DC - (NCACLU) 1424 16th St. NW, Suite 501, 
. WASHINGTON, DC - 20036 (202-483-3830) (202-483-3830) 
. WEST VIRGINIA - 1228 Seventh St., Huntington, West Virginia 25701 
. WISCONSIN - 1840 N. Farwell Ave., Rm. 303, Milwaukee, Wise. 53202 

(414-272-4032) 



To obtain a complete list of all the ACLU chapters, write: American Civil Liberties 
Union, 156 5th Avenue, New York, NY 10010, or call them at (212) WA 9-6076. 

JOIN THE ARMY OF YOUR CHOICE 

The first rule of our new Nation prohibits any of us from serving in the army of a 
foreign power with which we do not have an alliance. Since we exist in a state of 
war with the Pig Empire, we all have a responsibility to beat the draft by any 
means necessary. 

First check out your medical history. Review every chronic or long-term illness 
you ever had. Be sure to put down all the serious infections like mono or hep. 
Next, make note of your physical complications. When you have assembled a 
complete list, get a copy of Physical Deferments or one of the other draft 
counseling manuals and see if you qualify. If you have a legitimate deferment, 
document it with a letter from a doctor. 



The next best deal is a Conscientious Objection status (CO.) or a psychiatric 
deferment (psycho). The laws have been getting progressively broader in 
defining CO. status during the past few year s. The most recent being, "sincere 
moral objections to war," without necessarily a belief in a supreme being. There 
are general guidelines sent out by the National Office of Selective Service that 
say it is a matter of conscience. The decision, however, is still pretty much in the 
hands of the local board. Visit a Draft Counseling Center if you feel you have a 
chance for this type of story. They'll know how your local board tends to rule. 
There are still some more cases to be heard by the Supreme Court before 
objection to a particular war is allowed or disallowed. It is not grounds for 
deferment as of now. 

Psychos are our specialty. Chromosome damage has totally wiped out our minds 
when it comes to concentrating on killing innocent people in Asia. When you get 
your invite to join the army, there are lots of ways you can prepare yourself 
mentally. Begin by staggering up to a cop and telling him you don't know who you 
are or where you live. He'll arrange for you to be chauffeured to the nearest 
mental hospital. There you repeat your performance, dropping the clue that you 
have used LSD in the past, but you aren't sure if you're on it now or not. In due 
time, they'll put you up for the night. When morning comes, you bounce out of 
bed, remember who you are, swear you'll never drop acid again and thank 
everyone who took care of you. Within a few hours, you'll be discharged. Don't 
be uptight about thinking how they'll lock you up forever cause you really are 
nuts. The hospitals measure victories by how quickly they can throw you out the 
door. They are all overcrowded anyway. 

In most areas, a one-night stand in a mental hospital is enough to convince the 
shrink at the induction center that you're capable of eating the flesh of a colonel. 
Just before you go, see a sympathetic psychiatrist and explain your sad mental 
shape. He'll get verification that you did time in a hospital and include it in his 
letter, that you'll take along to the induction center. 

When you get to the physical examination, a high point in any young man's life, 
there are lots of things working in your favor. Here, long hair helps; the army 
doesn't want to bother with trouble-makers. Remember this even though a tough 
looking sergeant runs down bullshit about "how they're gonna fix your ass" and 
"anybody with a trigger finger gets passed." He's just auditioning for the Audie 
Murphy movies, so don't believe anything he lays down. 

Talk to the other guys about how rotten the war in Vietnam is and how if you get 
forced to go, you'll end up shooting some officers. Tell them you'd like the 
training so you can come back and take up with the Weathermen. 

Check off as many items as can't be verified when given the forms. Suicide, dizzy 
spells, bed-wetting, dope addiction, homosexuality, hepatitis. Be able to drop a 
few symptoms on the psychiatrist to back up your story of rejection by a cold and 



brutal society that was indifferent, from a domineering father that beat you, and 
mother that didn't understand anything. Be able to trace your history of bad family 
relationships, your taking to the streets at 15 and eventually your getting 
"hooked." Let him "pry" things out of you if possible. Show him your letter if you 
had the foresight to get one. 

Practice a good story before you go for the physical with someone who has 
already beat the system. If your local board is fucked up, you can transfer to an 
area that disqualifies almost everyone who wants out, such as the New York City 
boards. If you can't think of anything you can always get FUCK ARMY tattooed 
on the outside of the baby finger of your right hand and give the tough sergeant a 
snappy salute and a hearty "yes sir!"* 

*lf unfortunately you get hauled in. The Army gives you a life insurance policy. By 
making Dan Berrigan or Angela Davis the beneficiary you might avoid front-line 
duty. 

CANADA, SWEDEN & POLITICAL ASYLUM 

If you've totally fucked up your chances of getting a deferment or already are in 
the service and considering ditching, there are some things that you should know 
about asylum. 

There are three categories of countries that you should be interested in if you are 
planning to ship out to avoid the draft or a serious prison term. The safest 
countries are those with which Amerika has mutual offense treaties such as 
Cuba, North Korea and those behind the so-called Iron Curtain. The next safest 
are countries unfriendly to the U.S. but suffer the possibility of a military coup 
which might radically affect your status. Cambodia is a recent example of a 
border-line country. Some cats hijacked a ship bound for Vietnam and went to 
Cambodia where they were granted asylum. Shortly thereafter the military with a 
good deal of help from the CIA, took over and now the cats are in jail. Algeria is 
currently a popular sanctuary in this category. 

Sweden will provide political asylum for draft dodgers and deserters. It helps to 
have a passport, but even that isn't necessary since they are required by their 
own laws to let you in. There are now about 35,000 exiles from the Pig Empire 
living in Sweden. The American Deserters Committee, Upplandsgaten 18, 
Stockholm, phone 08-344663, will provide you with immediate help, contacts and 
procedural information once you get there. If you enter as a tourist with a 
passport, you can just go to the local police station, state you are seeking asylum 
and fill out a form. It's that sample. They stamp your passport and this allows you 
to hustle rent and food from the Swedish Social Bureau. It takes six months for 
you to get working papers that will permit you to get employment, but you can 
live on welfare until then with no hassle. The following places can be contacted, 
for additional help. They are all in Stockholm: 



. Reverend Tom Hayes 82-42-1 1 or 21-45-86 

. Kristina Nystrom of the Social Bureau 08-230570 

. Bengt Suderstrom 31-84-32 (legal) 

. Hans-Goran Franck 10-25-02(legal) 

Canada does not offer political asylum but they do not support the U.S. foreign 
policy in Southeast Asia so they allow draft dodgers and deserters to the current 
tune of 50,000 to live there unmolested. Do not tell the officials at the border that 
you are a deserter or draft dodger, as they will turn you in. Pose as a visitor. To 
work in Canada you have to qualify for landed immigration status under a point 
system. 

There will be a number of background questions asked and you have to score 50 
points or better to pass and qualify. You get one point for each year of formal 
education, 10 points if you have a professional skill, 10 points for being between 
18-35 years of age, more points for having a Canadian home and job waiting for 
you, for knowing English or French and a whopping 15 points for having a 
stereotyped middle class appearance and life-style. Letters from a priest or rabbi 
will help here. Some entry points are easier than others. Kingsgate, for example, 
just north of Montana is very good on weekdays after 10:00 P.M. 

The best approach if you are considering going to Canada is to write or, better 
still, visit the Montreal Council to Aid War Resisters, Case Postale 5, Westmount, 
Montreal, 215 Quebec or American Deserters Committee, 3837 Blvd., Saint 
Laurent, St. Louis, Montreal 3, Quebec. They will provide you with the latest info 
on procedures and the problems of living in Canada as a war resister. If you can't 
make it up there, see a local anti-war organization for counseling. If you are 
already in the army, you should find out all you need to know before you ditch. 
It's best to cross the border while you're on leave as it might mean the difference 
between going AWOL and desertion if you decide to come back. In any event, no 
one should renounce their citizenship until they have qualified for landed 
immigration status as that would classify the person as a non-resident and make 
it possible for the Canadian police to send you back, which on a few rare 
occasions has happened. 

Because there have been few cases of fugitives from the U.S. seeking political 
asylum, there is not a clear and ample formula that can be stated. Germany, 
France, Belgium and Sweden will often offer asylum for obvious political cases 
but each case must be considered individually. Go there incognito. Contact a 
movement organization or lawyer and have them make application to the 
government. Usually they will let you stay if you promise not to engage in political 
organizing in their country. In any event if they deport you these countries are 
good enough to let you pick the country to which you desire to be sent. 

We feel it's our obligation to let people know that life in exile is not all a neat deal, 
not by a long shot. You are removed from the struggle here at home, the 



problems of finding work are immense and the customs of the people are strange 
to you. Most people are unhappy in exile. Many return, some turn themselves in 
and others come back to join the growing radical underground making war in the 
belly of the great white whale. 




Steal Now, Pay Never 



SHOPLIFTING 

This section presents some general guidelines on thievery to put you ahead of 
the impulse swiping. With some planning ahead, practice and a little nerve, you 
can pick up on some terrific bargains. 

Being a successful shoplifter requires the development of an outlaw mentality. 
When you enter a store you should already have cased the joint so don't browse 
around examining all sorts of items, staring over your shoulder and generally 
appearing like you're about to snatch something and are afraid of getting caught. 
Enter, having a good idea of what you want and where it's located. 

Camouflage is important. Be sure you dress the part by looking like an average 
customer. If you are going to rip-off expensive stores (why settle for less), act like 
you have a chauffeur driven car double parked around the corner. A good rule is 
dress in the style and price range of the clothes, etc., you are about to shoplift. 
The reason we recommend the more expensive stores is that they tend to have 
less security guards, relying instead on mechanical methods or more usually on 
just the sales people. Many salespeople are uptight about carrying out a bust if 
they catch you. A large number are thieves themselves, in fact one good way to 
steal is simply explain to the salesclerk that you're broke and ask if you can take 
something without paying. It's a great way to radicalize shop personnel by 
rapping to them about why they shouldn't give a shit if the boss gets ripped off. 

The best time to work out is on a rainy, cold day during a busy shopping season. 
Christmas holiday is a shoplifter's paradise. In these periods you can wear heavy 
overcoats or loose raincoats without attracting suspicion. The crowds of 
shoppers will keep the nosy "can-l-help-you's" from fucking up your style. 

Since you have already checked out the store before hitting it, you'll know the 
store's "blind-spots" where you can be busy without being observed too easily. 
Dressing rooms, blind alley aisles and washrooms are some good spots. Know 
where the cashier's counter is located, where the exits to the street and storage 
rooms are to be found, and most important, the type of security system in use. 

If you are going to snatch in the dressing room, be sure to carry more than one 
item in with you. Don't leave tell-tale empty hangers behind. Take them out and 
ditch them in the aisles. 

An increasingly popular method of security is a small shoplifting plastic detector 
attached to the price tag. It says "Do Not Remove" and if you do, it electronically 
triggers an alarm in the store. If you try to make it out the door, it also trips the 
alarm system. When a customer buys the item, the cashier removes the detector 
with a special deactivation machine. When you enter the store, notice if the door 



is rigged with electronic eyes. They are often at the waist level, which means if 
the item is strapped to your calf or tucked under your hat, you can walk out 
without a peep from the alarm. If you trigger the alarm either inside the store or at 
the threshold, just dash off lickety-split. The electronic eyes are often disguised 
as part of the decor. By checking to see what the cashier does with merchandise 
bought, you can be sure if the store is rigged. Other methods are undercover 
pigs that look like shoppers, one-way mirrors and remote control television 
cameras. Undercover pigs are expensive so stores are usually understaffed. Just 
watch out (without appearing to watch out) that no one observes you in action. 
As to mirrors and cameras there are always blind spots in a store created when 
displays are moved around, counters shifted, and boxes piled in the aisles. 
Mirrors and cameras are rarely adjusted to fit these changes. Don't get turned off 
by this security jazz. The percentage of stores that have sophisticated security 
systems such as those described is very small. If you work out at lunch time, the 
security guards and many of the sales personnel will be out of the store. Just 
before closing is also good, because the clerks are concentrating on going home. 

By taking only one or two items, you can prevent a bust if caught by just acting 
like a dizzy klepto socialite getting kicks or use the "Oh-gee-l-forgot-to-pay" 
routine. Stores don't want to hassle going into court to press charges, so they 
usually let you go after you return the stuff. If you thought ahead, you'll have 
some cash ready to pay for the items you've pocketed, if caught. Leave your I.D. 
and phone book at home before going shopping. People rarely go to jail for 
shoplifting, most if caught never even see a real cop. Just lie like a fucker and the 
most you'll get is a lecture on law and order and a warning not to come back to 
that store or else. 

TECHNIQUES 

The lining of a bulky overcoat or loose raincoat can be elaborately outfitted with a 
variety of custom-made large pockets. The openings to these pockets are not 
visible since they are inside the coat. The outside pockets can be torn out leaving 
only the opening or slit. Thus you can reach your hand (at counter level) through 
the slit in your coat and drop objects into the secret pockets sewn into the lining. 
Pants can also be rigged with secret pockets. The idea is to let your fingers do 
the walking through the slit in your coat, while the rest of the body remains the 
casual browser. You'll be amazed at how much you can tuck away without any 
noticeable bulge. 

Another method is to use a hidden belt attached to the inside of your coat or 
pants. The belt is specially designed with hooks or clothespins to which items 
can be discretely attached. Ditching items into hidden pockets requires a little 
cunning. You should practice before a mirror until you get good at it. 



A good idea is to work with a partner. Dig this neat duet. A man and woman walk 
into a store together looking like a respectable husband and wife. The man 
purchases a good belt or shirt and engages the salesman in some distracting 
conversation as he rings up the sale. Meanwhile, back in the aisle, "wife" is busy 
rolling up two or three suits. Start from the bottom while they are still on the rack 
and roll them up, pants and jackets together, the way you would roll a sleeping 
bag. The sleeves are tied around the roll making a neat little bundle. The bundle 
is then tucked between your thighs. The whole operation takes about a minute 
and with some practice you can walk for hours with a good size bundle between 
your legs and not appear like you just shit in your pants. Try this with a coat on in 
front of a mirror and see how good you get at it. 

Another team method is for one or more partners to distract the sales clerks 
while the other stuffs. There are all sorts of theater skits possible. One person 
can act drunk or better still appear to be having an epileptic fit. Two people can 
start a fight with each other. There are loads of ways, just remember how they do 
it in the next spy movie you see. 

One of the best gimmicks around is the packaging technique. Once you have the 
target item in hand, head for the fitting room or other secluded spot. Take out a 
large piece of gift wrapping and ribbon. Quickly wrap up the item so it will look 
like you brought it in with you. Many stores have their own bags and staple the 
cash register receipt to the top of the bag when you make a purchase. Get a 
number of these bags by saving them if you make a purchase or dropping 
around to the receiving department with a request for some bags for your 
Christmas play or something. Next collect some sales receipts, usually from the 
sidewalk or trash cans in front of the store. Buy or rip-off a small pocket stapler 
for less than a dollar. When you get the item you want, drop it in the bag and 
staple it closed, remembering to attach the receipt. This is an absolutely perfect 
method and takes just a few seconds. It eliminates a lot of unsightly bulges in 
your coat and is good for warm-weather heisting. 




A dummy shopping bag can be rigged with a bit of ingenuity. The idea is to make 
it look like the bag is full when there's still lots of room left. Use strips of 
cardboard taped to the inside of the bag to give it some body. Remember to carry 
it like it's filled with items, not air. Professional heisters often use a "booster box," 
usually a neatly wrapped empty package with one end that opens upon touch. 
This is ideal for electrical appliances, jewelry, and even heavy items such as 
portable television sets. The trick side can be fitted with a spring door so once 
the toaster is inside the door slams shut. Don't wear a black hat and cape and go 
around waving a wand yelling "Abracadabra," just be your usual shlep shopper 
self. If you can manage it, the trick side just can be an opening without a trick 
door. Just carry the booster box with the open side pressed against your body. 
Briefcases, suitcases and other types of carrying devices can all be made to hold 
items. Once you have something neatly tucked away in a bag or box, it's pretty 
hard to prove you didn't come in with it. 



ON THE JOB 



By far the easiest and most productive method of stealing is on the job. Wages 
paid to delivery boys, sales clerks, shippers, cashiers and the like are so insulting 
that stealing really is a way of maintaining self-respect. If you are set on stealing 
the store dry when you apply for the job, begin with your best foot forward. Make 
what employment agencies call a "good appearance." Exude cleanliness, 
Godliness, sobriety and all the other WASPy virtues third grade teachers insist 
upon. Building up a good front will eliminate suspicion when things are "missing." 

Mail clerks and delivery boys can work all sorts of neat tricks. When things get a 
little slow, type up some labels addressed to yourself or to close friends and play 
Santa Claus. Wrap yourself a few packages or take one that is supposed to go to 
a customer and put your label over theirs. Blame it on the post office or on the 
fact that "things get messed up 'cause of all the bureaucracy." It's great to be the 
one to verbalize the boss's own general feelings before he does when something 
goes awry. The best on-the-job crooks always end up getting promoted. 

Cashiers and sales persons who have access to money can pick up a little 
pocket change without too much effort, no matter how closely they are watched 
by supervisors. Women can make use of torn hems to stash coins and bills. Men 
can utilize cuffs. Both can use shoes and don't forget those secret little pockets 
you learned about in the last section. If you ring up items on a cash register, you 
can easily mistake $1 .39 for 390 or $1 .98 for 980 during the course of a hectic 
day. Leave pennies on the top shelf of the cash register and move one to the far 
right side every time you skip a dollar. That way at the end of the day, you'll know 
how much to pocket and won't have to constantly be stuffing, stuffing, stuffing. 

If you pick up trash or clean up, you can stick all sorts of items into wastebaskets 
and later sneak them out of the store. 

There are many ways of working heists with partners who pose as customers. 
See the sections on free food and clothing for these. There are also ways of 
working partnerships on the job. A cashier at a movie theater and a doorman can 
work out a system where the doorman collects the tickets and returns them to the 
cashier to sell again. 

A neat way to make a large haul is to get a job through an agency as a domestic 
for some rich slob. You should use a phony identification when you sign up at the 
agency. Once you are busy dusting the town house, check around for anything 
valuable to be taken home. Pick up the phone, order all sorts of merchandise, 
and have it delivered. A friend with a U-haul can help you really clean up. 



CREDIT CARDS 



Any discussion of shoplifting and forgeries inevitably leads to a rap on credit 
cards; those little shiny plastic wonder passes to fantasy land that are rendering 
cash obsolete. There are many ways to land a free credit card. You can get one 
yourself if your credit is good, or from a friend: report it stolen and go on a binge 
around town. Sign your name a little funny. Super underworld types might know 
where you can purchase a card that's not too hot on the black market. You might 
heist one at a fashionable party or restaurant. If you're a hat check girl at a night 
club, don't forget to check out pockets and handbags for plastic goodies.* 

Finally, you can redo a legitimate card with a new number and signature and be 
sure that it's on no one's "hot list." Begin by removing the ink on the raised letters 
with any polyester resin cleaner. Next, the plastic card should be held against a 
flat iron until the raised identification number is melted. You can use a razor 
blade to shave off rough spots. This combination of razor blade and hot iron, 
when worked skillfully, will produce a perfect blank card. When the card is 
smooth as new, reheat it using the flat iron and press an addressograph plate 
into the soft plastic. The ink can be replaced by matching the original at any 
stationary store. If this is too hard, you can buy machines to make your own 
credit cards, which are made for small department stores. Granted, this method 
is going require some expertise, but once you've learned to successfully forge a 
credit card, buy every item imaginable, eat fancy meals, and even get real money 
from a bank. 

*The absolute best method is to have an accomplice working in the post office rip 
off the new cards that are mailed out. They get to know quickly which envelopes 
contain new credit cards. Since the person never receives the card it never 
dawns on them to report it stolen. This gives you at least a solid month of 
carefree spending and your signature will be perfect. 

Whether your credit card is stolen, borrowed or forged, you still have to follow 
some guidelines to get away without any hassle. Know the store's checking 
method before you pass the hot card. Most stores have a fifty-dollar limit where 
they only call upstairs on items costing fifty dollars or more. In some stores it's 
less. Some places have a Regiscope system that takes your picture with each 
purchase. You should always carry at least one piece of back-up identification to 
use with the phony card as the clerk might get suspicious if you don't have any 
other ID. They can check out a "hot list" that the credit card companies send out 
monthly, so if you're uptight about anything watch the clerk's movements at all 
times. If things get tight, just split real quick. Often, even if a clerk or boss thinks 
it's a phony, they'll OK the sale anyway since the credit card companies make 
good to the stores on all purchases; legit or otherwise. Similarly, the insurance 
companies make good to the credit companies and so on until you get to a little 
group of hard working elves in the basement of the U.S. Mint who do nothing but 
print free money and lie to everybody about there being tons of gold at Fort Knox 
to back up their own little forging operation. 



Monkey Warfare 



If you like Halloween, you'll love monkey warfare. It's ideal for people uptight 
about guns, bombs and other children's toys, and allows for imaginative forms of 
protesting, many of which will become myth, hence duplicated and enlarged 
upon. A syringe (minus the needle) or a cooking baster can be filled with a dilute 
solution of epoxy glue. Get the two tubes in a hardware store and squeeze into a 
small bottle of rubbing alcohol. Shake real good and pour into the baster or 
syringe. You have about thirty minutes before the mixture gets too hard to use. 
Go after locks, parking meters, and telephones. You can fuck up the companies 
that use IBM cards by buying a cheap punch or using an Exacto knife and cutting 
an extra hole in the card before you return it with your payment. By the way, 
when you return payments always pay a few cents under or over. The company 
has to send you a credit or another bill and it screws up their bookkeeping 
system. Remember, always bend, fold, staple or otherwise mutilate the card. By 
the way if you ever find yourself in a computer room during a strike, you might 
want to fuck up the school records. You can do this by passing a large magnet or 
portable electro-magnet rapidly back and forth across the reels of tape, thus 
erasing them. And don't miss the tour of the IBM plant, either. 

Another good bit is to rent a safe deposit box (only about $7.00 a year) in a bank 
using a phony name. That usually only need a signature and don't ask for 
identification. When you get a box, deposit a good size dead fish inside the 
deposit box, close it up and return it to its proper niche. From then on, forget 
about it. Now think about it, in a few months there is going to be a hell-of-a-smell 
from your small investment. It's going to be almost impossible to trace and 
besides, they can never open the box without your permission. Since you don't 
exist, they'll have no alternative but to move away. Invest in the Stank of Amerika 
savings program. Just check out Lake Erie and you'll see saving fish isn't such a 
dumb idea. If you get caught, tell them you inherited the fish from your 
grandmother and it has sentimental value. 

There are lots of things you can send banks, draft boards and corporations that 
contribute to pollution via the mails. It is possible to also have things delivered. 
Have a hearse and flowers sent to the chief of police. We know someone who 
had a truckload of cement dumped in the driveway of her boss under the fib that 
the driveway was going to be repaved. 

By getting masses of people to use electricity, phones or water at a given time, 
you can fuck up some not-so-public utility. The whole problem is getting the word 
out. For example, 10,000 people turning on all their electrical appliances and 
lights in their homes at a given time can cause a blackout in any major city. A hot 
summer day at about 3:00 PM is best. Five thousand people calling up 
Washington, D.C. at 3:00 PM on a Friday (one of the busiest hours) ties up the 
major trunk lines and really puts a cramp in the government's style of carrying on. 
Call (202) 555-1212, which is information and you won't even have to pay for the 



call. If you call a government official, ask some questions like "How many kids did 
you kill today?" or "What kind of liquor do Congressmen drink?" or offer to take 
Teddy Kennedy for a ride. A woman can cause some real excitement by calling a 
Congressman's office and screaming "Tell that bastard he forgot to meet Irene at 
the motel this afternoon." 

A Washington call-in would work even better by phoning direct to homes of the 
big boys. For starters you can call collect the following*: 

• Richard M. Nixon - El Presidente - (202) 456-1444 

• Spiro T. Agnew - El Toro - (202) 265-2000 ext. 6400 
. John N. Mitchell - El Butcher - (202) 965-2900 

. Melvin R. Laird - El Defendo - (301 ) 652-4449 

. Henry A. Kissinger - El Exigente - (202) 337-0042 

. William P. Rogers - El Crapper - (301 ) 654-71 25 

. General Earl G. Wheeler - El Joint Bosso - (703) 527-61 1 9 

. General William C. Westmoreland - El Pollutoni - (703) 527-6999 

. Richard M. Helms - El Assassin - (301 ) 652-41 22 

. John N. Chafee-EI Sinko Swimmi-(703) 536-541 1 

*Any group who elopes with any of the persons listed is entitled to a free copy of 
this book. Anyone who parlays all 10 in a lift-off can have all the royalties. Send 
ears for verification. 

A great national campaign can be promoted that asks people to protest the 
presidential election farces on Inauguration Day. When a president says "So help 
me God," rush in and flush the toilet. A successful Flush for God campaign can 
really screw up the water system. 

If you want to give Ma Bell an electric permanent, consider this nasty. Cut the 
female device off an ordinary extension cord and expose the two wires. Unscrew 
the mouthpiece on the phone and remove the voice amplifier. You will see a red 
and a black wire attached to two terminals. Attach each of the wires from the 
extension cord to each one from the phone. Next plug in the extension cord to a 
wall socket. What you are doing is sending 120 volts of electricity back through 
equipment which is built for only volts. You can knock off thousands of phones, 
switchboards and devices if all goes right. It's best to do this on the phone in a 
large office building or university. You certainly will knock out their fuses. 
Unfortunately, at home your own phone will probably be knocked out of 
commission. If that happens, simply call up the business office and complain. 
They'll give you a new phone just the way they give the other seven million 
people that requested them that day. 

Remember, January is Alien Registration Month, so don't forget to fill out an 
application at the Post Office, listing yourself as a citizen of Free Nation. Then 
when they ask you to "Love it or leave it," tell them you already left! 




Okay General Mitchell, let f s see you dance 



Piece Now 



It's ridiculous to talk about a revolution without a few words on guns. If you 
haven't been in the army or done some hunting, you probably have a built-in fear 
against guns that can only be overcome by familiarizing yourself with them. 




There are two basic types of handguns or pistols; 
revolver and the automatic. The revolver carries a 



HANDGUNS 



There are two basic types of handguns or pistols: the revolver carries a load of 5 
or 6 bullets in a "revolving" chamber. The automatic usually holds the same 
number, but some can hold up to 14 bullets. Also, in the automatic the bullets 
can be already packed in a magazine which quickly snaps into position in the 
handle. The revolver must be reloaded one bullet at a time. An automatic can 
jam on rare occasions, or misfire, but with a revolver you just pull the trigger and 
there's a new bullet ready to fire. Despite pictures of Roy Rogers blasting a silver 
dollar out of the sky, handguns are difficult to master a high degree of accuracy 
with and are only good at short ranges. If you can hit a pig-size object at 25 
yards, you've been practicing. 



Among automatics, the Colt 45 is a popular model with a long record of reliability. 
A good popular favorite is a Parabellum 9 mm, which has the advantage of a 
double action on the first shot, meaning that the hammer does not have to be 
cocked, making possible a quick first shot without carrying a cocked gun around. 
By the way, do not bother with any handgun smaller than a .38 caliber, because 
cartridges smaller than that are too weak to be effective. 

Revolvers come in all sizes and makes, as do automatics. The most highly 
recommended are the .38 Special and the .357 Magnum. Almost all police forces 
use the .38 Special. They are light, accurate and the small-frame models are 
easy to conceal. If you get one, use high velocity hollow pointed bullets, such as 
the Speer DWM (146 grain h.p.) or the Super Vel (110 grain h.p.). The hollow 
point shatters on contact, insuring a kill to the not-so-straight shooters. Smith and 
Wesson makes the most popular .38 Special. The Charter Arms is a favorite 
model. The .357 Magnum is an extremely powerful handgun. You can shoot right 
through the wall of a thick door with one at a distance of 20 yards. It has its own 
ammo, but can also use the bullets designed for the .38. Both guns are about the 
same in price, running from $75-$100 new. An automatic generally runs about 
$25 higher. 

RIFLES 

There are two commonly available types of rifles; the bolt action and the semi- 
automatic. War surplus bolt action rifles are cheap and usually pretty accurate, 
but have a slower rate of fire than a semi-automatic. A semi-automatic is 
preferable in nearly all cases. The M-1 carbine is probably the best semi- 
automatic for the money (about $80). It's light, short, easy to handle and has only 
the drawback of a cartridge that's a little underpowered. Among bolt actions, the 
Springfield, Mauser, Royal Enfield, Russian 7.62, and the Lee Harvey Oswald 
Special, the Mannlicher-Carcano, are all good buys for the money (about $20). 

One of the best semi-automatics is the AR-18, which is the civilian version of the 
military M-1 6. In general, this is a fantastic gun with a high rate of fire, minimal 
recoil, high accuracy, light weight, and easy maintenance. If kept clean, it will 
rarely jam, and the bullet has astounding stopping power. It sells for around 
$225. 

SHOTGUNS 

The shotgun is the ideal defensive weapon. It's perfect for the vamping band of 
pigs or hard-heads that tries to lynch you. Being a good shot isn't that necessary 
because a shotgun shoots a bunch of lead pellets that spread over a wide range 
as they leave the barrel. There are two common types: the pump action and the 
semi-automatic. Single shot types and double-barrel types do not have a high 
enough rate of fire for self-defense. 



The pump action is easy to use and reliable. It usually holds about five shells in a 
tube underneath the barrel. For self-defense you should use 00 buckshot shells. 
Shotguns come in various gauges, but you will want the largest commonly 
available, the 12 gauge. The Mossberg Model 500 A is a super weapon in this 
category which sells for about $90. When buying one, try to get a shotgun with a 
barrel as short as possible up to the legal limit of 18 inches. It is easy to cut down 
a longer barrel, too. This increases the area sprayed. 

The semi-automatic gun is not used too much for self-defense, as they usually 
hold only three shells. With some practice, you can shoot a pump nearly as fast 
as a semi-automatic, and they are much cheaper. See the gun books catalogued 
in the Appendix for more information. 

There are many other good guns available, and a great deal to know about 
choosing the right gun for the right situation. Reading a little right wing gun 
literature will help. 

OTHER WEAPONS 

If you are around a military base, you will find it relatively easy to get your hands 
on an M-79 grenade launcher, which is like a giant shotgun and is probably the 
best self-defense weapon of all time. Just inquire discreetly among some long- 
haired soldiers. 

TRAINING 

Owning a gun ain't shit unless you know how to use it. They make a hell of a 
racket when fired so you just can't work out in your den or cellar except with a BB 
gun, which is good in between real practice sessions. Find a buddy who served 
in the military or is into hunting or target-shooting and ask him to teach you the 
fundamentals of gun handling and safety. If you're over 18, you can practice on 
one of your local firing ranges. Look them up in the Yellow Pages, call and see if 
they offer instructions. They are usually pretty cheap to use. In an hour, you can 
learn the basics you need to know about guns and the rest is mostly practice, 
practice, just like in the westerns. Contact the National Rifle Association, 
Washington D.C. and ask for information on forming a gun club. If you can, you 
are entitled to great discounts, have no trouble using ranges and get excellent 
info on all matters relating to weapons. 

A secluded place in the country outside city limits, makes an ideal range for 
practicing. Shoot at positioned targets. A good idea is to blow up balloons and 
attach them to pieces or boxes. Position yourself downstream alongside a 
running brook. A partner can go upstream and release the balloons into the 
water. As they rush downstream, they simulate an attacker charging you and 
make excellent moving targets. Watch out for ricochetting bullets. Have any 



bystander stand by behind you. A clothesline with a pulley attachment can be 
rigged up to also allow practice with a moving target. 

GUN LAWS 

Once you decide to get a gun, check out the local laws. There are federal ones, 
but they're not stricter than any state ordinance. If you're unsure about the laws, 
send 750 to the U.S. Government Printing Office for the manual called Published 
Ordinances: Firearms. It runs down the latest on all state laws. In most states 
you can buy a rifle or shotgun just for the bread from a store or individual if you 
are over 18 years old. You can get a handgun when you can prove you're over 
21, although you generally need a special permit to carry it concealed on your 
person or in your car. A concealed weapon permit is pretty hard to get unless 
you're part of the establishment. You can keep a handgun in your home, though. 
It's also generally illegal to walk around with a loaded gun of any type. Once you 
get the hang of using a gun, you'll never want to go back to the old peashooter. 




Let's see now, you run the fuse thru the clock face 
and fasten it to your left toe 



The Underground 



Amerika is just another Latin dictatorship. Those who have doubts, should try the 
minimal experience of organizing a large rock festival in their state*, sleeping on 
some beach in the summer or wearing a flag shirt. Ask the blacks what it's been 
like living under racism and you'll get a taste of the future we face. As the 
repression increases so will the underground-deadly groups of stoned 
revolutionaries sneaking around at night and balling all day. As deadly as their 
southern comrades the Tupamaros. Political trials will only occur when the heavy 
folks are caught. Too many sisters and brothers have been locked up for long 
stretches having maintained a false faith in the good will of the court system. 
Instead, increased numbers have chosen to become fugitives from injustice: 
Bernadine Dohrn, Rap Brown, Mark Rudd, hundreds of others. Some including 
Angela Davis, Father Berrigan and Pun Plamondon have been apprehended and 
locked in cages, but most roam freely and actively inside the intestines of the 
system. Their growth leads to persistent indigestion for those who sit at the 
tables of power. As they form into active isolated cells they make apprehension 
difficult. Soon the FBI will have a Thousand Most Wanted List. Our heroes will be 
hunted like beasts in the jungle. Anyone who provides information leading to the 
arrest of a fugitive is a traitor. 

*Unless you want to use our music to attack our politics as the governor of 
Oregon did to drain support away from demonstrations against the AmeriKKKan 
Legion. In such a situation the concert should be sabotaged along with political 
education as to why such an action has been taken. Don't let the pigs separate 
our culture from our politics. 

Well fellow reader, what will you do when Rap or Bernadine call up and ask to 
crash for the night? What if the Armstrong Brothers want to drop some acid at 
your pad or Kathy Boudin needs some bread to keep on truckin'? The entire 
youth culture, everyone who smiles secretly when President Agnew and General 
Mitchell refer to the growing number of "hot-headed revolutionaries", all the folks 
who hope the Cong wins, who cheer the Tupamaros on, who want to exchange 
secret handshakes with the Greek resistance movement, who say "It's about 
time" when the pigs get gunned down in the black community, all of us have an 
obligation to support the underground. They are the vanguard of our revolution 
and in a sense this book is dedicated to their courage. 

If you see a fugitive's picture on the post office wall take it home for a souvenir. 
But watch out, because this is illegal. Soon the FBI will be printing all our posters 
for free. Right on, FBI! Print up wanted posters of the war criminals in 
Washington and undercover agents (be absolutely sure) and put them up 
instead. Since the folks underground move freely among us, we must be totally 
cool if by chance we recognize a fugitive through their disguise. If they deem it 
necessary to contact you, they will make the first move. If you are very active in 
the aboveground movement, chances are you are being watched or tapped and 



it would be foolhardy to make contact. The underground would be meaningless 
without the building of a massive community with corresponding political goals. 
People above ground demonstrate their love for fugitives by continuing and 
intensifying their own commitment. 

If the FBI or local subversive squad of the police department is asking a lot of 
questions about certain fugitives, get the word out. Call your underground paper 
or make the announcement at large movement gatherings or music festivals; the 
grapevine will pass information on to those that need to know. 

If you're forced to go underground, don't think you need to link up with the more 
well-known groups such as the Weathermen. If you go under with some close 
friends, stick together if it's possible. Build contacts with aboveground people that 
are not that well known to the authorities and can be totally trusted. 

You should change the location in which you operate and move to a place where 
the heat on yon won't be as heavy. A good disguise should be worked out. The 
more information the authorities have on you and the heavier the charges 
determine how complete your disguise should be. There are some good tips in 
the books on make-up listed in the Appendix. Only in rare cases is it necessary 
to abandon the outward appearance of belonging to the youth culture. In fact, 
even J. Edgar Freako admits that our culture is our chief defense. To infiltrate the 
youth culture means becoming one of us. For an FBI agent to learn an 
ideological cover is a highly disciplined organization is relatively easy. To 
penetrate the culture means changing the way they live. The typical agent would 
stand out like Jimmy Stewart in a tribe of Apaches. 

In the usual case the authorities do not look for a fugitive in the sense of carrying 
on a massive manhunt. Generally, people are caught for breaking some minor 
offense and during the routine arrest procedure, their fingerprints give them 
away. Thus for a fugitive having good identification papers being careful about 
violations such as speeding or loitering, and not carrying weapons or bombing 
manuals become an important part of the security. It is also a good idea to have 
at least a hundred dollars cash on you at all times. Often even if you are arrested 
you can bail yourself out and split long before the fingerprints or other 
identification checks are completed. 

If by some chance you are placed on the "10 Most Wanted List" that is a signal 
that the FBI are indeed conducting a manhunt. It is also the hint that they have 
uncovered some clues and feel confident they can nab you soon. The List is a 
public relations gimmick that Hooper, or whatever his name is, dreamed up to 
show the FBI as super sleuths, and compliment the bullshit image of them that 
Hollywood lays down. Most FBI agents are southerners who majored in 
accounting or some other creative field. When you are placed on the List, go 
deeper underground. It may become necessary to curtail your activities for a 
while. The manhunt lasts only as long as you are newsworthy since the FBI is 



very media conscious. Change your disguise, identification and narrow your 
circle of contacts. In a few months, when the heat is off, you'll be able to be more 
active, but for the time, sit tight. 

IDENTIFICATION PAPERS 

An amateur photographer or commercial artist with good processing equipment 
can make passable phony identification papers. Using a real I.D. card, mask out 
the name, address, and signature with thin strips of paper the same color as the 
card itself. Do a neat gluing job. Next, photograph the card using bright overhead 
lighting to avoid shadows, or xerox it. Use a paper of a color and weight as close 
to the real thing as you can get. If you use phony state and city papers such as 
birth certificate or driver's license, choose a state that is far away from the area in 
which you are located. Have a complete understanding of all the information you 
are forging. Dates, cities, birthdays and other data are often part of a coding 
system. Most are easy to figure out simply by studying a few similar authentic 
cards. 

Almost all I.D. cards use one or another IBM Selectric type to fill in the 
individual's papers. You can buy the exact model used by federal and state 
agencies for less than $20.00 and install the ball in 5 seconds on any Selectric 
machine. When you finish the typing operation, sign your new name and trim the 
card to the size you want. Rub some dirt on the card and bend it a little to 
eliminate its newness. 

Another method is to obtain a set of papers from a close friend of similar 
characteristics. Your friend can replace the originals without too much trouble. In 
both cases it might be advisable to get authentic papers using the phonies you 
have in your possession. In some states getting a license or voting registration 
card is very easy. Library cards and other supplementary I.D.'s are simple to get. 
A passport should not be attempted until you definitely have made up your mind 
to split the country. That way agencies have less time to check the information 
and you can decide on the disguise to be used for the picture. Unless you expect 
to get hotter than you are right now, in which case, get it now. 

It is wise to have two sets of identification to be on the safe side but never have 
both in your possession at the same time. If you sense the authorities are close 
to mailing you and choose to go underground, prepare all the identification 
papers well in advance and store them in a secure place. Inform no one of your 
possible new identity. 

Before you start passing phony I.D.'s to cops, banks and passport offices, you 
should have experience with lesser targets so you feel comfortable using them. 
There are stiff penalties for this if you get caught. A few better methods than the 
ones listed above exist, but we feel they should not be made this public. With a 
little imagination you'll have no trouble. Dig! 



COMMUNICATION 



Living underground, like exile, can be extremely lonely, especially during the 
initial adjustment period when you have to reshuffle your living habits. 
Psychologically it becomes necessary to maintain a few close contacts with other 
fugitives or folks aboveground. This is also necessary if you plan to continue 
waging revolutionary struggle. This means communication. If you contact 
persons or arrange for them to contact you, be super cool. Don't rush into 
meetings. Stay OFF the phone! If you must, use pay phones. Have the contact 
person go to a prescribed booth at prescribed time. Knowing the phone number 
beforehand, you can call from another pay phone. The pay phone system is 
superior to debugging devices and voice scramblers. Even so, some pay phones, 
that local police suspect bookies use, are monitored. 

Keep your calls short and disguise your voice a bit. If you are a contact and the 
call does not come as scheduled, don't panic. Perhaps the booth at the other end 
is occupied or the phone you are on is out of order. In New York, the latter is 
usually true. Wait a reasonable length of time and then go about your business. 
Another contact will be made. Personal rendezvous should take place at places 
that are not movement hangouts or heavy pig scenes. Intermediaries should be 
used to see if anyone was followed. Just groove on a few good spy flicks and 
you'll figure it all out. 

Communicating to masses of people above ground is very important. It drives the 
MAN berserk and gives hope to comrades in the struggle. The most important 
message is that you are alive, in good spirits and carrying on the struggle. The 
communications of the Weathermen are brilliantly conceived. Develop a mailing 
list that you keep well hidden in case of a bust. You can devise a system of 
mailing stuff in envelopes (careful of fingerprints) inside larger envelopes to a 
trusted contact who will mail the items from another location to further 
camouflage your area of operation. A host of communication devices are 
available besides handwritten notes and typed communications. Tape recorders 
are excellent but better still are video-tape cassette machines. You can wear 
masks, do all kinds of weird theatrical stuff and send the tapes to television 
stations. At times you might want to risk being interviewed by a newsman, but 
this can be very dangerous unless you conceive a super plan and have some 
degree of trust in the word of the journalist. Don't forget a grand jury could be 
waiting for him with a six months contempt or perjury charge when he admits 
contact and does not answer their questions. 

The only other advice is to dress warm in the winter and cool in the summer, stay 
high and... 



1 mnftfEt l Q 




CHlCKkSS ilnvisv CA ill LI ACS WASH tMCTON, DlC ,~" "M 




LIBERATION! 



fuck new york 



HOUSING 

You can always sleep up in Central Park during the daytime, although the 
muggers come out to play at night. Free night crashing can be found in the 
waiting room of the Pennsylvania Railroad station, 34th St. and 7th Ave. The 
cops will leave you alone until about 7:00 AM when they kick you out. You can 
put your rucksack in a locker for twenty-five cents to avoid it being ripped-off. 

The Boys Emergency Shelter, 69 St. Marks Place, (777-1234) provides free 
room and board for males 16-20 years of age. The Living Room can be found on 
the same block. It's a heavy religious scene, but they will help with room and 
board. Their hours are 6:30 PM to 2:00 AM, phone 982-5988. Also on the Lower 
East Side is the Macauley Mission at 90 Lafayette St. 

On the West Side, there's a poet named Delworth at 125 Sullivan St. that houses 
kids if he's got room. The Judson Memorial Church, Washington Square South 
always has one or more housing programs going. If you're really hard up, try the 
Stranded Youth Program, 111 W. 31st St. (554-8897). Teenagers 16-20 are sent 
home; if you don't want to go back but need room and board, give them phony 
identification. 

The Graymoor Monastery (CA 6-2388) offers free room and board for young 
people in the country. They provide transportation. 

FOOD 

Hunt's Point Market, Hunt's Point Ave. and 138th St. in the Bronx will lay enough 
fruit and vegetables on your family to last a week or more. Lettuce, squash, 
carrots, cantaloupe, grapefruit, even artichokes and mushrooms all crated. You'll 
need a car or truck and they only give stuff away in the early morning. Just tell 
them you're doing a free food thing and it's yours. Outasight! 

The large slaughterhouse area is in the far West Village, west of Hudson and 
south of 14th St. Get a letter from a clergyman saying you need meat for a 
church-sponsored meal. 

The fish market is located on Fulton and South Streets under the East River 
Drive overpass in lower Manhattan. You can always manage to find some 
sympathetic fisherman early in the morning who will lay as much fish on you as 
you can cart away. 




If you pick up on a car, take a trip to Long Island City. There you will find the 
Gordon Baking Company at 42-25 21st, Pepsi Cola at 4602 Fifth Ave., Borden 
Company at 35-10 Steinway St. and Dannon Yogurt at 22-11 38th Ave. All four 
places give out samples for free if you call or write ahead and explain how it's for 
a block party. 



Along 2nd and 3rd Avenues on the upper east side are a host of swank bars with 
free hors-d'oeuvres beginning at five. All Longchamps are good, as is Max's 
Kansas City. 

For real class, check the back pages of the New York Times for ocean cruises 
and those swinging bon voyage parties. If you look kind of straight or want to 
disguise yourself and see the other half at it, sneak into conventions for drinks, 
snacks and all kinds of free samples. Call the New York Convention Bureau, 90 
E. 42nd St. MU 7-1300 for info. You can also get free tickets to theater events 
here at 9:00 AM on weekdays. 

Other free meals can be gotten at the various missions. 

. Bowery Mission - 227 Bowery (674-3456). Pray and eat from 4:00 to 6:00 

PM only. Heavy religious orientation. 
. Catholic Worker - 36 E. First St. Soup line from 1 0:00 to 1 1 :00 AM. 

Clothes for women on Thursday from 12:00 to 2:00 PM. Clothes for men 

after 2:00 PM weekdays. Sometimes lodging. 
. Holy Name Center for Homeless Men - 1 8 Bleeker St. (CA 6-5848 or CA 

6-2338) Clothes and morning showers from 7:00 to 1 1 :00 AM. 

• Macauley Mission - 90 Lafayette St. (CA 6-6214) Free room and board. 
Free food Saturdays at 5:00 PM. Sometimes free clothes. 

. Moravian Church - 154 Lexington Ave. (MU 3-4219 or 533-3737) Free 

spaghetti dinner on Tuesday at 1:00 PM. 
. Quakers - 328 E. 15th St. Meals at 6:00 PM Tuesdays. 

• Wayward - 287 Mercer St. Free meals nightly. 

The International Society For Krishna Consciousness is located at 41 Second 
Ave. Every morning at 7:00 AM a delicious cereal breakfast is served free along 
with chanting and dancing. Also at noon, more food and chanting and on 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 7:00 PM, again food and chanting. Then it's 
all day Sunday in Central Park Sheepmeadow (generally) for still more chanting 
(sans food). Hari Krishna is the freest high going if you can get into it and dig 
cereal and of course, more chanting. 

The Paradox Restaurant, at 64 E. 7th St. is a neat cheap health joint that will give 
you a free meal if you help peel shrimp or do the dishes. 

MEDICAL CARE 

The latest dope on family planning and the new abortion law can be obtained 
from Planned Parenthood, 300 Park Ave. (777-2015). They provide a free 
directory on city-wide services in this area. The Black Panther Free Health Clinic 
on 180 Sutter Ave. in Brooklyn is radical medicine in action. If you ripped off this 
book, why not send them or another group mentioned in this book a check so 
they can continue serving the people. Two fantastic clinics on the Lower East 



Side are the St. Marks People's Clinic at 44 St. Marks Place (533-9500), open 
weekdays 6-10 PM and NENA at 290 E. Third St. (677-5040) which also 
functions as a switchboard for the area. 

The Beth Israel Teenage Clinic at 17th St. and 1st Ave. 673-3000 ext. 2424) 
services young people. Millie at the Village Project, 88 2nd Ave. can arrange for 
free glasses. The New York University Dental Clinic, 421 First Ave. will give you 
the cheapest dental care in Gotham. Stuyvesant-Poly Clinic, 137 Second Ave. 
(674-0232) has an emergency day clinic with the quickest service. Dial-a- 
freakout is 324-0707. Ambulance service is at 440-1234. You ought to know the 
cops accompany ambulance calls. The following is a list of the New York City 
Health Department Centers. They provide a number of free services including X- 
rays, venereal examinations and treatment, shots for children's diseases, 
vaccinations, tetanus shots and a host of other services. 

Manhattan 

. Central Harlem-2238 Fifth Ave. AU 3-1 900 

. East Harlem-1 58 E. 1 1 5th St. TR 6-0300 

. Lower East Side-341 E. 25th St. MU 9-6353 

. Manhattanville-21 Old Broadway MO 5-5900 

. Morningside-264 W. 1 1 8th St. UN6-2500 

. Washington Heights-600 W. 168th St. WA 7-6300 

Bronx 

. Morrisania- 1 309 Fulton St. WY 2-4200 

. Mott Haven-349 E. 140th St. MO 9-6010 

. Tremont-Fordham-1 826 Arthur Ave. LU 3-5500 

. Westchester-Pelham-2527 Glebe Ave. SY 2-01 00 

Brooklyn 

. Bedford-485 Throop Ave. GL 2-7880 

. Brownsville-259 Briston St. HY 8-6742 

. Bushwick-335 Central Ave. HI 3-5000 

. Crown Heights-1 21 8 Prospect Place SL 6-8902 

. Flatbush-Gravesend-1601 Ave. S Nl 5-8280 

. Ft. Greene-295 Flatbush Ave. Ext. 643-8934 

. Red Hook-Gowanus-250 Baltic St. 643-5687 

. Sunset Park-514 49th St. GE 6-2800 

. Williamsburg-Greenpoint-151 Mayier St. EV 8-3714 

Queens 



Astoria-Maspeth-12-1631st Ave. L.I.C. AS 8-5520 



• Corona-Flushing-34-33 Junction Blvd., Jackson Heights HI 6-3570 
. Jamaica-90-37 Parsons Blvd. OL 8-6600 

• Rockaway-67-10 Rockaway Beach Blvd.; Arvenne NE 4-7700 
. Richmond-51 Stuyvesant Place SA 7-6000 

The key to getting overall medical care for free is to pick up on a Medicaid card. 
You can apply at any metropolitan hospital. After filling out a long form and 
waiting three weeks you'll get your card in the mail. Have a good story when 
interviewed about why you're not working or only making under $2900 a year. 
There is an age limit in that only folks over 21 can qualify, but the rule is liberally 
enforced and younger people can get the card with the right hardship story. 

LEGAL AID 

The Lawyer's Commune is a group of revolutionary young lawyers pledged to 
make a limited income and handle the toughest political cases. They handle all 
our cases. Find them at 640 Broadway on the fifth floor (677-1552). 

New York radicals are fortunate in having a number of good legal assistance 
agencies. One of the following is bound to be able to help you out of a jam. 

. Emergency Civil Liberties Committee-25 E. 26th St. 683-8120 (civil 
liberties) 

. Legal Aid Society-100 Centre St. BE 3-0250 (criminal matters) 
. Mobilization for Youth Legal Services-320 E. Third St. 777-5250 (all types 
of services) 

. National Lawyers Guild-5 Beekman St. 277-0385 or 227-1078 (political) 
. New York Civil Liberties Union-156 Fifth Ave. 929-6076 (civil liberties) 
. New York University Law Center Office-249 Sullivan St. GR 3-1 896 (civil 
matters) 

DRAFT COUNSELING 

Bronx 

• Claremont Neighborhood Center - 169th St. and Washington Ave. 588- 
1000. Hours are from 2:00 to 10:00 weekdays. 

Brooklyn 

• Black Anti-Draft Union - 448 Nostrand Ave. 

. Church of St. John the Evangelist - 195 Mayier St. 387-8721 
. Society for Ethical Culture - 53 Prospect Park West SO 8-2972 



Manhattan 



• American Friends Service Committee - 15 Rutherford Place 777-4600 
. Chelsea Draft Information - 346 W. 20th St. WA 9-2391 

• Community Free Draft Counseling Center - 470 Amsterdam Ave. 787- 
8500 

. Greenwich Village Peace Center - 137 W. Fourth St. 533-5120 

. Harlem Unemployment Center - 2035 Fifth Ave. 831-6591 

. LEMPA - 1 05 Avenue B 477-9749 

. New York Civil Liberties Union - 156 Fifth Ave. 675-5990 

. New York Workshop in Nonviolence - 339 Lafayette St. 227-0973 

. Resistance - 339 Lafayette St. 674-9060 

. Union Theological Seminary - 606 W. 122nd St. MO 3-9090 

. War Resisters League - 339 Lafayette St. 228-0450 

. Westside Draft Information - 602 Columbus Ave. (89th St.) 874-7330 

. Woman's Strike for Peace - 799 Broadway 254-1 925 

PLAY 

Botanical Gardens 

• Conservatory Gardens - Central Park, 105th St. and Fifth Ave. Seasonal 
display. LE 4-4938 

• Brooklyn Botanical Gardens - Flatbush and Washington Aves. Rose 
Oriental Garden, Rose Garden, Native Wild Flower Garden, Rock Garden, 
Conservatory. Seasonal display. MA 2-4433. 

• New York Botanical Gardens, Bronx Park, 200th St., east of Webster Ave. 
Gardens and Conservatories. Seasonal displays. Parking fee: $1.00 on 
Saturday, Sunday and holidays. Open: Grounds - 10:00 AM to dark, 
Greenhouses - 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM. 933-9400. 

• Queens Botanical Gardens, 43-50 Main St., between Dahilia and Elder 
Aves., Flushing. TU 6-3800. 

These gardens are really beautiful places to fuck around for a day. The best ones 
are the Bronx and Brooklyn. Bring a picnic, a few friends, some grass, and plant 

the seeds. It's all free. 

Zoos 

. Central Park - 64th St. and Fifth Ave. Free. Open 1 1 AM to 5 PM. 

• Children's Zoo - 64th St. and Fifth Ave. Open 10 AM to 5 PM. Admission is 
10 cents. No tickets are sold after 4:30 PM. Free story-telling sessions 
with motion pictures or color slides at 3:30 PM, Mondays through Friday. 

• Bronx Park - Fordham Road and Southern Blvd. WE 3-1500. Open daily 
from 10 AM to 5 PM. November, December, January closes at 4:30 PM. 
Admission on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays is 25 cents for 
adults and children over 5 years. Free on other days and all legal holidays. 
Children's Zoo closes November 1st. 



• Barrett Park Zoo - in Richmond, Broadway, Glenwood Place and Clove 
Road. Open daily 10 AM to 5 PM. Gl 2-3100. 

Unlike the barbaric cages in Central Park, the 18-acre Flushing Meadow Zoo in 
Queens has been designed so that visitors can view the animals and buds in 
their natural surroundings, without bars. Take the Main Street Flushing Line 
Subway (train number 7) from Times Square to 1 1 1th St. in Queens. Bronx Zoo 
which is the largest in the United States and Flushing Meadow Zoo are fantastic. 

Beaches 

• Brooklyn - Coney Island Beach and Boardwalk ES 2-1670 

• Manhattan Beach - Oriental Blvd., from Ocean Ave. to Makenzie St. DE 
26794 

• Bronx - Pelham Bay Park - Orchard Beach and Boardwalk Tl 5-1828 

• Queens - Jacob Riis Park - Jamaica Bay, Beach 149 to Beach 169 GR 4- 
4600 

. Rockaway Beach - First St. to 149th St. GR 4-3470 

. Richmond - Great Kills Park - Hylan Blvd., Great Kills EL 1-1977 

• South Beach and Boardwalk - Ft. Wadsworth to Miller Field, New Dorp YU 
7-0709 

• Wolfs Pond Park - Holten and Cornelia Avenues, Princes Bay YU 4-0360 

Go to the beach on weekdays as it usually is very crowded on the weekends. 
The best beach by far is Rockaway. It has pretty good waves. 

Swimming Pools MANHATTAN - OUTDOOR POOLS 

. Carmine Street Pool - Clarkson St. and Seventh Ave. WA 4-4246 

. Colonial Pool - Bradhurst Ave. and W. 145th St. WA 6-8109 

. East 23rd Street Pool - Asser Levy Place MU 5-1026 

. Hamilton Fish Pool - E. Houston and Sheriff Streets GR 7-391 1 

. Highbridge Pool - Amsterdam Ave. and W. 173rd St. WA 3-2360 

. John Jay Pool - 77th St., east of York Ave. at Cherokee Place. RE 7-2458 

. Lasker Memorial Pool - Central Park, 1 10th St. and Lenox Ave. 348-6297 

. Thomas Jefferson Pool - 1 1 1th St. and First Ave. LE 4-0198 

• West 59th Street Pool - between West End and Amsterdam Avenues. CI 
5-8519 

MANHATTAN - INDOOR POOLS 

. Baruch Pool - Rivington St. and Baruch Place GR 3-6950 

. East 54th Street Pool - 342 E. 54th St. and Second Ave. PL 8-3147 

. Rutgers Place Pool - 5 Rutgers Place GR 3-6567 

. West 28th Street Pool - 407 W. 28th St. CH 4-1 896 

. West 134th Street Pool - 35 W. 134th St. AU 3-4612 



BROOKLYN - OUTDOOR POOLS 



• Betsy Head Pool - Hopkinson and Dumont Avenues Dl 2-2977 

• McCarren Pool - Driggs Ave. and Lorimer St. EV 8-2367 
. Red Hook Pool - Bay and Henry Streets TR 5-3855 

. Sunset Pool - Seventh Ave. and 43rd St. GE 5-2627 

BROOKLYN = INDOOR POOLS 

• Brownsville Recreation Center - Linden Blvd. and Christopher Ave. HY 8- 
1121 

• Metropolitan Avenue Pool - Bedford Ave., no phone; call SO 8-2300 

• St. John's Recreation Center - Prospect Place and Schenectady Avenues 
HY 3-3948 

BRONX OUTDOOR POOLS 

. Crotona Pool - E. 173rd St. and Fulton Ave. LU 3-3910 

BRONX - INDOOR POOLS 

. St. Mary's Recreation Center Pool - St. Ann's Ave. and E. 145th St. CY 2- 
7254 

QUEENS - OUTDOOR POOLS 

. Astoria Pool - 19th St. and 23rd Drive, Astoria AS 8-5261 

• Flushing Meadow Amphitheatre - Long Island Expressway and Grand 
Central Parkway, Swimming pool and diving pool. 699-4228. 

RICHMOND - OUTDOOR POOLS 

• Faber Pool - Faber St. and Richmond Terrace Gl 2-1524 

• Lyons Pool - Victory Blvd. and Murray Hulbert Ave. Gl 7-6650 

The pools are generally crowded but on a warm summer day you don't care. The 
pools are open on weekdays from 10 AM to 12:30 PM. There is a free period for 
children 14 years of age and under. No adults are admitted to the pool areas 
during this free period. After 1 PM on weekdays and all day on Saturdays, 
Sundays and holidays there is a 15 cents charge for children under 14 years and 
a 35 cents charge for children over 14 years. 

Free Cricket Matches 

At both Van Cortland Park in the Bronx and Walker Park on Staten Island every 
Sunday afternoon there are free cricket matches. Get schedule from British 



Travel Association, 43 W. 61st St. At Walker Park, free tea and crumpets are 
served during intermission. I say! 

Free Park Events 

All kinds of activities in the Parks are free. Call 755-4100 for a recorded 
announcement of the week's events. The freak center is the rowing pond around 
70th St. and Bethesda Fountain around 72nd St. in Central Park, although it 
floats. Busts are non-existent. A complete list of all recreational facilities can be 
obtained by calling the New York City Department of Parks. 

Museums 

• American Academy of Arts and Letters, American Numismatic Society, 
and the American Geographical Society are all located at Broadway and 
155th St. 

• Asia House Gallery - 1 12 E. 64th St. Art objects from the Far East. 

• Brooklyn Museum - Eastern Parkway and Washington Ave. Egyptian stuff 
best in the world outside Egypt. Take IRT (Broadway line) express train to 
Brooklyn Museum station. (Don't miss the Gardens in back.) 

. The Cloisters - Weekdays 10 AM to 5 PM, Sundays 1 PM to 6 PM. Take 
IND Eighth Avenue express (A train) at 190th Str. station and walk a few 
blocks. The number 4 Fifth Avenue bus also goes all the way up and it's a 
pleasant ride. One of the best trip places in medieval setting. 

• Frick Museum - 1 E. 70th St. Great when you're stoned. Closed Mondays. 

• The Hispanic Society of America - Broadway between 15th and 16th 
Streets. The best Spanish art collection in the city. 

• Marine Museum of the Seaman's Church - 25 South St. All kinds of model 
ships and sea stuff. Also the Seaport Museum on 16 Fulton St. 

• Metropolitan Museum - 5th Ave. and 82nd St. 

• Museum of the American Indian - Broadway at 155th St. Largest Indian 
museum in the world. Open Tuesday to Sunday 1 to 5 PM. Take IRT 
(Broadway line) local to 157th St. station. 

. Museum of the City of New York - 1 03rd St. and 5th Ave. LE 4-1 672 
. Museum of Modern Art - 1 1 W. 53rd St. CI 5-3200. Monday is free. 

• Museum of Natural History - Central Park West and 79th St. Great 
dinosaurs and other stuff. Weekdays 10-5 PM, Sunday 1-5 PM. 

• Museum of the Performing Arts - Lincoln Center, Amsterdam Ave. and 
65th St. 799-2200 

. New York Historical Society - 77th St. and Central Park West. TR 3-3400 

• Chase Manhattan Museum of Money - 1256 6th Ave. All banks, especially 
Chase Manhattan ones are museums when you get right down to it. 
Liberate them! 



Music 



• Summer Musical Festival in Central Park. About the closest you can come 
to good free rock music. There are concerts every Monday, Wednesday, 
Friday and Saturday in the months of July and August. It only costs $1 .00 
or $2.00, and everybody in the music world plays at least once. The 
concerts are held at the Wollman Ice Skating Ring. Occasionally there are 
free rock concerts in Central Park. 

• The Greenwich House of Music located at 46 Barrow St. in the West 
Village puts on free concerts and recitals every Friday at 8:30 PM. For a 
complete schedule send a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 

• The Frick Museum, 1 E. 70th St., BU 8-0700, has concerts every Sunday 
afternoon. The best of the classical offerings. You must hassle a little. 
Send a self-addressed stamped envelope that will arrive on Monday 
before the date you wish to go. One letter, one ticket. The Donnell Library, 
20 W. 53rd St. also presents free classical music. The schedule is found in 
"Calendar of Events" at any library. 

• The Juilliard School presents a variety of free stuff: orchestral, opera, 
dance, chamber music, string quartets and soloists. Performances take 
place most Friday evenings at 8:30 PM, from November through May. 

• The Museum of the City of New York, 5th Ave. between 103rd St. and 
104th St. every Sunday at 2:30 PM, October through April. Phone first: LE 
4-1672. Classical. 

• New York Historical Society, from December through April, has glee clubs, 
string groups, and classical singers performing on Sundays at 2:30 PM., 
170 Central Park West (near 77th St.), Phone TR 3-3400 for schedule. 

• Brooklyn Museum has classical concerts by assorted soloists and groups 
and are presented free every Sunday from October through June at 2 PM, 
Eastern Parkway and Washington Ave. NE 8-5000. 

Television Shows 

You can sometimes pick up tickets to television shows at the New York 
Convention and Visitors Bureau, 90 E. 42nd St. For the bigger and better shows 
you have to write direct to the studios. If you do write, do it as far in advance as 
possible. CBS, 51 W. 52nd St., asks you to write two months in advance. 
Sometimes you can get last-minute tickets for the Ed Sullivan Theater, 1697 
Broadway. For NBC shows, write NBC Ticket Division, 30 Rockefeller Plaza. 
There is also a ticket desk on the NBC Mezzanine of 30 Rockefeller Plaza where 
tickets are given out for the day shows on a first-come-first-served basis. It's 
open Monday through Friday from 9-5. ABC, 1330 Sixth Ave. ask you to write 
two to three weeks in advance for tickets. You can get tickets up to the day of the 
show by calling in or visiting the ticket office of ABC, 79 W. 66th St. or 1330 6th 
Ave. (LT 1-7777). Metromedia also gives out free tickets to their shows and you 
can get them by writing to WNEW-TV, 205 E. 67th St. (LE 5-1000). 



Theater 



• The Dramatic Workshop, Studio number 808, Carnegie Hall Building, 881 
7th Ave. at 56th St. Free on Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 8:15 PM. JU 
6-4800 for information. 

• New York Shakespeare Festival, Delacourte Theater, Central Park. Every 
night except Monday. Performance begins at 8:00 PM, but get there 
before 6:00 PM to be assured of tickets. 

• Pageant Players, the Sixth Street Theater Group and other street theater 
groups perform on street corners and in parks. Free theater is also 
provided at the United Nations Building and the Stock Exchange on Wall 
Street. If you enjoy seventeenth century comedy. 

• The Equity Library Theatre gives performances of old Broadway hits at the 
Masters Institute, 103rd St. and Riverside Drive. They perform Tuesday 
through Sunday at 8:30 PM and Sunday at 2:30 PM. Free tickets are not 
always available so phone ahead (MO 3-2038) for reservations. No shows 
during the summer. 

• The Museum of Performing Arts, 111 Amsterdam Ave. offers plays, dance 
programs and music. Shows start at 6:30 PM. Tickets are handed out at 
4:00 PM. Saturday shows start at 2:30 PM. You can write for a calendar of 
events to 1865 Broadway or call 799-2200. 

Movies 

• The New York Historical Society, Central Park West and 77th St. presents 
Hollywood movies every Saturday afternoon. TR 3-3400 for a schedule. 

• At the Metropolitan Museum, Fifth Ave. and 82nd St., you can see art films 
every Monday at 3:00 PM. TR 9-5500 for a schedule. 

• New York University has a very good free movie program as well as 
poetry, lectures, and theatre presentations. Call the Program Director's 
Office 598-2026 for a schedule. 

. The Film Library in the Donnell Library, 20 W. 53rd St., 790-6463, has a 
wide variety of films which may be borrowed free of charge. The Library 
system also presents film programs throughout the year. Pick up a 
Calendar of Events which lists the free showings at all the branches. 

• The Museum of Modern Art is free every Monday and they have a free film 
showing at 2 and 5 PM. Get a schedule at the Museum. They have the 
largest movie collection in the world. 

• Museum of Natural History, Central Park West between 77th and 81st St. 
(TR 3-1300), presents travel and anthropological films on Wednesday and 
Saturday afternoons at 2:00 sharp, from October through May. 

Every movie that plays in New York has a series of screenings for critics, film 
buyers and friends of the folks that made it. Look in the Yellow Pages under 
Motion Picture Studios and Motion Picture Screening Rooms. Once you get the 
feel of it, you'll quickly learn who shows what, where and when. They always let 
you in free and if not give some gull story. (See Free Entertainment section). If 



you see previews in a theater or notice a publicity build-up in the newspapers, 
the movie is being screened at one or more of the rooms. 



INFORMATION 

• Daily News-220 E. 42nd St., will answer any questions you put to them. 
Well almost! 

o General information: 883-1 122 
o Sports: 883-1133 
o Travel: 883-1144 
o Weather: 883-1155 

• For the latest news, call the wire services: 

o AP is PL 7-1312, UPI is 
o MU 2-0400. 

. The New York Times Research Bureau, 229 W. 43rd St., 556-1651, will 
research news questions that pertain to the past three months. Liberation 
News Service at 160 Claremont Ave., will give you up-to-the-minute 
coverage of radical news. Call 749-2200. 

UNDERGROUND PAPERS 

. East Village Other-20 E. 1 2th St., 255-21 30 

. Liberation-339 Lafayette St., 674-0050 

. Other Scenes-Box 8, Village Station, 242-3888 

. Rat-241 E. 14th St., 228-4460 

. Win-339 Lafayette St., 674-0050 

• For others, call Underground Press Syndicate, Box 26, Village Station, 
691-6073 

MISCELLANEOUS 

. Dial-A-Beating-911 

. Dial-a-Demonstration 924-6315 

. Dial-a-Satellite-TR 3-0404 

. Time-NERVOUS 

. Weather-WE 6-1212. 

. The Switchboard-989-0720, at the Alternate U, is open 6 PM to 3 AM. 
THE SUBWAY SYSTEM 

The first thing to do is get familiar with the geography of stops you use most 
frequently. Locate the token cage. Check to see whether the exits are within easy 
view of the teller, off to the side, or blocked from view by concrete pole- 
supporters. Next learn the type of turnstile in use. Follow the hints laid down in 
the Free Transportation section. 



The rush hours are always the easiest times. Just go through the exits as people 
push open the door. Also at crowded hours, people go single file past the 
turnstiles, one after another in a steady stream. Get in line and go under. The 
people will block you from view and won't do anything. Even a cop won't give you 
much hassle. Some subway stations have concrete supports that block the 
teller's view. Where these exist, slip through the exit nearest the pole or slide by 
the turnstile. 

Turnstile jumping is such a skill, it's going to be added to the Olympics. There are 
three basic styles common to New York and most cities and each needs a 
slightly different approach. 

The Old Wooden Cranker-(Traditional) You have to go under or sail over this 
type. Going under is a smoother trip. Going over is trickier since you need both 
hands free to hurdle and it's a quicker, more noticeable motion. 

New-Aluminum-Bar-Turnstiles-Which-Turn-Both-Ways-For-Exit-and- Entrance- 
Approach it with confidence. Pretend you're putting in a token with your right 
hand and pull the bar toward you one third of the way with your left hand. Go 
through the space left between the bars and the barrier. Not for heavyweights! 

New-Aluminum-Bar-Turnstiles-Which-Can-Be- Used-Only-For-Entrance-They 
won't pull towards you, and so, you must go either under or over them. 

NOTE: There is no way to tell a New-Aluminum-Bar-Turnstile-Which-Turns-Both- 
- Ways-For-Exit-and-Entrance from a New-Aluminum-Bar-Turnstile-Which- Can- 
Be-Used-Only-For-Entrance unless there is a sign. You have to try it first. 
Therefore, it is important to remember which kind is in use at your local station so 
your technique will be smooth. Once you're through, remember in your mind 
you've paid. Ignore everybody who tries to stop you or tell you different. If 
someone shouts just keep on truckin' on toward your track. Don't stop or run. 
Insist you are right if you ever get caught. We have been doing it for years, got 
caught twice and let go both tunes when other passengers insisted we paid. 
Everybody hates the subways, even the tellers. 




FREEBIES 



Clothing Repairs 



All Wallach stores feature a service that includes sewing on buttons, free shoe 
horns, and shoe laces, mending pants pockets and linings, punching extra holes 
in belts, and a number of other free services. 

Furniture 

By far the best place to get free furniture in New York is on the street. Once a 
week in every district, the Sanitation Department makes bulk pick-ups. The night 
before, residents put out all kinds of stuff on the street. For the best selection try 
the West Village on Monday nights, and the East Seventies on Tuesday nights. 
On Wednesday night there are fantastic pick-ups on 35th St. in-back of Macy's. 
Move quickly though, the guards get pissed off easily; the truckers couldn't care 
less. This street method can furnish your whole pad. Beds, desks, bureaus, 
lamps, bookcases, chairs, and tables. It's all a matter of transportation. If you 
don't have access to a car or truck, it's worth it to rent a station wagon and make 
pick-ups. 

Ghosts 

If you would like to meet a real ghost, write Hans Holtzer, c/o New York 
Committee for Investigation for Paranormal Research, 140 Riverside Drive, New 
York, NY. He'll put you in touch for free. 

Free Lessons 

Lessons in a variety of skills such as plumbing, electricity, jewelry-making, 
construction and woodworking are provided by the Mechanics Institute, 20 W. 
44th St. Call or write them well in advance for a schedule. You must sign up early 
for lessons as they try to maintain small courses. MU 7-4279. 

Poems 

are free. Are you a poem or are you a prose? 
Liberated Churches 

. Saint Mark's in the Bowery, Second Ave. and 10th ST. (674- 6377 

• Washington Square Methodist Church, 133 W. Fourth St., 

• Greenwich Village (777-2528); Judson Memorial Church, Washington 
Square South (725-9211). 

Flowers 

At about 9:30 AM, free flowers in the Flower District on Sixth Ave. between 22nd 
St. and 23rd St. Once in a while, you can find a potted tree that's been thrown out 
because it's slightly damaged. 



The Staten Island Ferry-Not free, but a nickel each way for a five mile ocean 
voyage around the southern tip of Manhattan is worth it. Take IRT (Broadway 
line) to South Ferry, local only. Ferry leaves every half-hour day and night. 

Drugs 

In the area along Central Park West in the Seventies and Eighties are located 
many doctor's offices. Daily they throw out piles of drug samples. If you know 
what you're looking for, search this area. 

Books 

You can always use the library. The main branch is on Fifth Ave. and 42nd St. 
The Public Library prints a leaflet entitled "It's Your Library" which lists all the 168 
branches and special services the library provides. You can pick it up at your 
nearest branch. They also publish a calendar of events every two weeks which is 
available free. If you have any questions call 791 -6161. 

You can get free posters, literature and books from the various missions to the 
United Nations located on the East Side near the UN Building. The Cuban 
Mission, 67th St., will give you free copies of Granma, the Cuban newspaper, 
Man and Socialism in Cuba, by Che Guevara and other literature. 

Maps 

A free subway map is available at any token booth. Good if you're new in the city 
and don't know your way around. 

Pets 

ASPCA, 441 E. 92nd St. and York Ave., TR 6-7700. Dogs, cats, some birds and 
other pets. Tell them you're from out of town if you want a dog and you will not 
have to pay the $5.00 license fee. Have them inspect and inoculate the pet; 
which they do free of charge. A place to look for free pets is in the Village Voice 
under their column Free Pets. 

Radio Free New York 

WBAI FM, 99.5 on your dial. 30 E. 39th St. (OX 7-8506). 
Free Schools 

. Alternative University, 69 W. 14th St. (989-0666). A good radical school 
offering courses in karate, Mao, medical skills and other courses. They will 
send you a catalogue listing current courses. 



. Bottega Artists Workshop, 1115 Quentin Road, Brooklyn, 336-3212 has 
art taught by professionals for a free. 

GENERAL SERVICES 

• Contact-220 E. Seventh St. Open 3 to 10 PM. Raps, contacts, mailing 
addresses, counseling, sometimes food. 

. Traveler's Aid-204 E. 39th St. MU 4-5029 

• Village Project-88 Second Ave. Open 2 to 6 PM. Same as Contact. 



fuck Chicago 



HOUSING 

Contrary to rumors, none of us have ever been to Chicago. None-the-less, we 
have some friends who have visited the area. In Chicago, everyone 17 or under 
must be off the streets by 10:30 PM and by 11:30 PM on Fridays and Saturdays. 
Don't sleep in Lincoln Park during political conventions, but other nights it's O.K. 
Wasn't it Hillel who asked, "Why is this night different from all other nights?" And 
wasn't it Mayor Richard J. Daley who responded, "Cause I say get your ass out 
of the park!" 

The Chicago Seed (929-0133) will give you the best advice on crashing and the 
local heat scene. Grace Lutheran Church, 555 W. Beldon St., and the Looking 
Glass at 1725 W. Wilson also have crashing places or know where you can find 
free room and board. 

You won't get hassled if you sack out in the Union Station on Adams Street just 
over the bridge. There are loads of folks crashing in abandoned buildings along 
LaSalle and other streets. Also the rooftops are cool. Stay off the streets though, 
unless you've got good identification. 

FOOD 

SCLC (Operation Breadbasket) has a free breakfast program every morning 
Monday through Friday from 7-10 AM at St. Anna Church, 55th St. and LaSalle 
St., and also at Christ the King Lutheran Church located at 3700 Lake Park. 

You can get free samples of cheese, meat, and coffee everyday at the Stop and 
Shop food store located on Washington between Dearborn and State Streets. At 
the Treasure Island grocery store located on Broadway, two blocks north of 
Belmont, free coffee and cookies are offered for the people. Halloway House at 
27 W. Randolph gives coupons good for coffee. Also at the Guild Bookstore at 25 
W. Jackson Blvd., and from the machines at the 4th through 14th floors of the 
Playboy Building. 

There are real cheap restaurants. One is a truck-stop in Skokie called Karl's 
Cafe. It's just north of Oakton on Skokie Highway. It's open until 6:00. You get a 
whole lot of food for $1 .00. Also, under the viaduct at Milwaukee and Damen is a 
small restaurant with Polish food. You can get a great meal for $1.35. It's worth a 
visit. It closes early in the evening. Another cheap restaurant is Paul and Ernie's 
on North Lincoln, just south of Wrightwood. You can have a beef dinner for about 
70 cents. 

A good place to pick up free vegetables and fruits is at the wholesale market on 
Randolph St. or S. Water St. on Friday afternoons. Many of the food factories 



such as Kraft Dairy Products give away free samples and cases for "charity." 
Check them out. 

It is possible to steal food from the 2nd floor Federal Building Cafeteria at Adams 
and Dearborn and the National Cafeteria at Clark and Van Buren. These 
cafeterias usually have long lines and you can eat while standing and just pay for 
the coffee. 

If you have a place to cook and store food, there are a few places that have 
pretty cheap food. The east gate of International Harvester, located at 1015 W. 
120th St. is unbelievable. Dig these bargains! 10 pounds of T-bone steaks 
(boxed) for $5.25 at midnight, at 4 PM, the produce man brings a different 
combination of goods. Atypical bill of fare might include tomatoes, cucumbers, 
strawberries, etc. at $1 .00 for 10 pounds of any item. The produce might vary 
from day to day, but the prices stay the same. On Thursdays at noon and 4 PM, 
the Lennell cookie man comes around. It's $1 .25 per box. At 7 PM, the sausage 
man arrives and the standard price is $2.00. The standard size is 3 to 5 pounds. 
He has salami, liver sausage, polish sausage, and usually odd lunchmeat such 
as bologna or summer sausage. All the food is sold out of trucks, and the prices 
might not be exact, but they're pretty close. 

Eggs are about 3 dozen for $2.00 on Randolph west of Halsted. Orange juice is 
pretty cheap at the Del Farm on Broadway. Wonder Bread thrift store on 
Diversey; Butternut, 87th St. and Ridgeland and 1471 W. Wilson, and Silvercup, 
55th and Federal, offer bread and rolls at big discounts. The Cicero Bottling 
Company at 31st St. and 48 Court sell a case of 12 quart bottles for $2.00. 
Mamas Cookies, 7400 S. Kastner give 5 pounds for $1.50. At Burhops, State and 
Grand, you can get cheap 5-pound boxes of steak. The Railroad Salvage around 
Madison and Halsted has dented cans (with stuff inside) for big discounts. It is 
also a good place for paper products. Campbell Soup, 2250 W. 55th St., open 
Tuesday and Thursday, will give you cases free or at discounts if you tell them 
it's for charity or look straight. Two good spots for all around shopping are the Hi- 
Lo on Lincoln, north of Irving. There's lots of stuff for 10 cents. Marathon 
Products at Randolph and Halsted is another good place. 

If you can survive on just one meal a day, you're set. The city has just opened 14 
free lunch centers throughout the town. They are located at: 

. Antgeld Urban Progress Center-967 E. 132nd St. 

. Area II Multi-Service Center of DHR-1500 N. North Park 

• Division Street Urban Progress Center-1940 W. Division 
. DHR Woodlawn District Office-631 7 S. Maryland 

. Englewood District Office of DHR-6003 S. Halsted 

• Garfeld Neighborhood Service Program-9 S. Kedzie 

• Halsted Urban Progress Center-1935 S. Halsted 

• Lawndale Urban Progress Center-3818 W. Roosevelt 



. Madden Park Fieldhouse-500 E. 37th St. 

• Martin Luther King Urban Progress Center-4741 S. King Drive 

• Montrose Urban Progress Center-901 W. Montrose 
. North Kenwood CCUO Office-4155 S. Lake Park 

• South Chicago Urban Progress Center-9231 S. Houston 
. Southern District DHR Office-2108 E. 71st St. 

The free hot meals consist of meat, potatoes, a vegetable, dessert, fruit, and 
coffee or milk. You have to give them a name and an address. 

MEDICAL CARE 

All three major universities have excellent clinics that do most kinds of medical 
work for free. The University of Chicago maintains a clinic at 950 E. 59th St. The 
University of Illinois has one located at 840 S. Wood. In addition to good medical 
care, Northwestern University Clinic offers very cheap dental treatment. The 
clinic is at 303 E. Chicago. Call the main switchboard of the schools and ask for 
the clinics to check out services and hours. 

A V.D. clinic is open every weekday and late on Wednesdays at 27 E. 26th St. 
and N. North Park. Chronic diseases are treated at 2974 N. Clybourn. Free chest 
X-rays are available at City Hall downtown, everyday. For mental health 
problems, try the clinic at 1900 N. Sedgwick (642-3531). 

Drug education is offered by Earth Mother on Wednesdays at the Grace Church, 
555 W. Belden. Information and help with bad trips can be obtained through Just 
Us, 61 N. Parkside (378-7618) or LSD Rescue Service, 7717 N. Sheridan (338- 
6750). Chicago has a number of good clinics maintained by movement and 
community groups spread throughout the city for the people that live in the area. 
The Black Panther Party runs the Spurgeon "Jake" Winters Free People's Clinic 
at 3850 W. 16th St. (522-3220). 

The Young Patriots Uptown Health Service located at 4408 N. Sheridan (334- 
8957) serves the people in that community. The Young Lords maintain the Dr. E. 
Betances Free People's Health Center at Peoples Church, 834 W. Armitage 
(549-8505). The Latin American Defense Organization has a clinic on 2353 W. 
North Avenue, (276-0900). The growing Student Health Organization administers 
a number of small clinics in various communities. Call them at 493-2741 or drop 
into their office at 1613 E. 53rd St. At the Holy Covenant Church, on Wilton and 
Diversey, you can get medical assistance at the Free People's Clinic as well as 
help with legal, housing, family planning and nutrition problems. Call 348-6842. 
All these clinics provide a variety of services and operate on different schedules. 
Call them first to be sure they are open. 



LEGAL AID 



Chicago has a number of good law schools and you can often get some 
assistance or referral by calling them and speaking to the editor of the law school 
paper. You can go to the bathroom for free in the Julius J. Hoffman Room at 
Northwestern University Law School. 

The Law Student Commune, 357 E. Chicago, 649-8462, is a group of young 
radical lawyers and law students trying to bring legal assistance into the streets. 
The People's Law Office 2156 N. Halsted, 929-1880 operates the same way. For 
community problems, call the Lincoln Park Rights Center, 525-9775, or the 
Community Legal Counsel, 726-0157. The ACLU maintains a large chapter in 
Chicago at 6 S. Clark, 236-5564, and handles cases where civil liberties are 
affected. 

DRAFT COUNSELING 

• American Friends Service Committee - 407 S. Dearborn St. 427-2533 
. Austin Draft Counseling Center - 5903 Fulton 626-9385 

. Chicago Area Draft Resisters (Cadre) - 519 W. North Ave. 664-6895 

• Chicago Circle Draft Information Organization University of Illinois, 317 
Chicago Circle Center 663-2557 

• Hyde Park Draft Information Center - Quaker House, 5615 S. Woodlawn 
Ave. 363-1248 

. Kennedy King Draft Counseling Center - 7047 S. Stewart - 488-0900, ext. 
36 

. Lawndale Draft Counseling - 4049 W. 28th St. 277-3140 

• Loyola Draft Counseling Center 6525 N. Sheridan, 274-3000 ext. 378 
. Mandel Legal Aid Clinic - 6020 S. University Ave. 324-5181 

• Ravenswood Draft Counseling - Barry Memorial Methodist Church, 4754 
N. Leavitt 784-3272 

• Roosevelt Selective Service Counseling Organization - Roosevelt 
University Student Senate Office, Rm. 204, 430 S. Michigan Ave. 922- 
3580 ext. 334 

• South Side Draft Information (Mt. Carmel Book Dist.) 2355 W. 63rd St. 
925-3686 

• Uptown Hull House Draft Information Service - 4520 N. Beacon St. 561- 
8033 

• Wellington Avenue Congregational Church Draft Counseling Center - 615 
W. Wellington Ave. 935-0642. 

PLAY 
Parks 

Lincoln Park stretches along Lake Michigan in the Northern section of the city. It 
has a Conservatory and Zoo, opened 9 AM to 5 PM. Just south of the zoo is the 
gathering place for free rock concerts, be-ins, and the like. There is also a zoo in 



the Brookfield section at 8400 W. 31st St. The Morton Arboretium located on 
Route 53 in Lisle is open every day till sunset. The Shedd Aquarium is located at 
1200 South Lake Shore Drive at Roosevelt. 

Music 

The Auditorium and Opera House sometimes offers free concerts on Sunday and 
weeknights. Hang around the lobby and claim there are tickets in your name at 
the box office. Even if it's a pay concert you can generally bluff your way inside. 
The Center for New Music, 2263 N. Lincoln, usually has free concerts on Sunday 
and Monday at 8 PM. WGLD is the local underground station. The Universal Life 
Church Coffee House, 1049 W. Polk has free rock and folk music on the 
weekends. Free City Music sponsors free rock concerts during the spring and 
summer in Lincoln Park. 

MUSEUMS 

• The Art Institute - Adams and Michigan. Opens daily at 10 AM. Great art 
museum. 

. Chicago Academy of Science-Lincoln Park at 2001 N. Clark. (LI 9-0606) 
Open daily from 10 AM to 5 PM. 

• Field Museum of Natural History-Roosevelt Road at Lake Shore Drive. 
Time of opening varies from day to day; call 922-9410. Thursday, 
Saturday and Sunday admission is free. 

• Museum of Contemporary Art-237 E. Ontario (943-7755) Open daily. 

• Museum of Science and lndustry-57th St. in the Hyde Park area. (MU 4- 
1414) Open daily from 9 AM to 5 PM. Our all-time favorite museum. 

• The Oriental Institute-University of Chicago campus, 1 155 E. 58th St. 
(643-0800) Open daily, except Monday, from 10AM to 5 PM. 

Poetry 

The Other Door Coffee House, 3124 N. Broadway, features nightly poetry 
readings and music. Call 348-8552. Cafe Pergolesi, 3404 N. Halsted, features 
poetry readings, baroque music and an art gallery. There is no cover or 
minimum. Open 6 to 12 PM, and till 1:00 AM on Saturday. 

Theater 

The Playhouse North, 315 W. North Ave. features free theater. For $1.00, you 
can see various groups perform at the Harper Theater Coffee House at 5238 S. 
Harper. Second City, 1616 N. Wells, has free improvisations after their evening 
performances every evening except Fridays. Free children's theater can be seen 
at La Dolores, 1980 North Orchard, Mondays and Wednesdays at 1 PM. Call 
664-2352. 



Movies 



• The Biograph Theater, 2433 N. Lincoln Ave. shows double bills for $1 .25 
and has a penny candy counter. John Dillinger got ambushed when he left 
the place. Free Newsreel films can be seen Wednesdays at 8 PM at the 
Neighborhood Commons, Wisconsin and Freemart. Newsreel, 2744 N. 
Lincoln (248-2018) provides movement films for free or law cost to groups. 

• Alice's Revisited, 950 N. Wrightwood, is a restaurant that shows free 
movies. On Fridays and Saturdays at 8 PM they have free folk-rock-blues 
music. Saturdays they also have free children's theater. Tuesdays they 
have psychodrama, also for free. Call 528-4250 for more info. 

INFORMATION 

• The Switchboard number is 281-7197. 

Underground Papers 

. Rising Up Angry - 2261 N. Lincoln 472-1791 

. Second City - 21 20 N. Halsted 549-8760 

. The Chicago Seed - 950 W. Wrightwood 929-01 33 

The Seed features a column called "Making It," which deals with survival in the 
Windy City. It is probably the best of its type in the country. 

The Black Panther Party office is located at 2350 W. Madison (243-8276). 

COMMUNITY PRINTING 

• Agitprop - no office; phone 929-0133 
. Chicago Print Co-op. - 6710 N. Clark 

• J. S. Jordan Memorial Printing Co-op. - 6710 N. Clark 

• Omega Posters - 71 1 S. Dearborn 
. Red Star Press - 180 N. Wacher 

SCHOOLS 

The People's School, 4409 N. Sheridan (561-6737), offers free courses in many 
areas of survival and radical politics. The White Panther Party, 787-1962, offers 
courses in street fighting, history of American radicalism, and dialectic sexism. 

FREEBIES 



Clothes 



The Concerned Citizens Survival Front, 2512 N. Lincoln Ave. has clothes. Try the 
dry cleaners on Armitage east of Halsted along the south side of the street. They 
give away unclaimed stuff. Also Brazil Cleaners at 3943 Indiana. The Eugene 
Blue Jean Store at 7017 Paulina has jeans, old army shirts and other items for 
less than a dollar. 

Furniture 

The Lake Shore Drive area on collection days has furniture. Call the bureau of 
Streets and Sanitation for a collection schedule. 

Free Store 

At 727 S. Laflin, you'll find a genuine free store that gives away everything you 
can imagine. It has a tendency to be a floating free store though. 

Money 

Pick up some underground papers at any of the offices listed and hawk them on 
the streets. You can pull in $6-$10 an hour if you work at it. 



Furniture 

Hie Lake Shore Drive area on collection days ha 
furniture. Call the bureau of Streets and Sanitation for 
collection schedule. 



Free Store 

At 727 S. Laflin, you'll find a genuine free stor< 
that gives away everything you can imagine, it has 
tendency to be a floating free store though. 



Money 

Pick up some underground papers at any of th< 
offices listed and hawk them on the streets. You can pul 
in $6-$ 10 an hour if you work at it. 



Tip** HWW WW 

w«o rami 



fuck los angeles 



HOUSING 

There are several crash pads and communes that will put you up for a few 
nights. Call the Free Clinic at 938-9141 . Floor space is available at the Sans 
Souce Temple on S. Ardmore. Women's Emergency Lodge at 912 W. 9th St. 
(627-5571 ) will put up women without a place to stay or make referrals. 
Resistance (386-9645) and Green Power (HQ 9-5184) will be helpful if you have 
to crash. Sleeping on the beaches is out, but the roofs are cool. The Midnite 
Mission at 396 S. Los Angeles (624-9258) has room and board for some 
boarders. The parks and streets are certain bust material. The L.A. pigs are 
matched in brutality only by their fellow hoggers in Chicago and South Africa. 
Every L.A. cop is nine feet of solid chrome. Bite his toes and down he goes. 

FOOD 

Green Power Feeds Millions is a unique organization serving the nets of people. 
They provide food for festivals, cancers, demonstrations, be-ins, sit-ins and 
similar events for free. In addition they supply a number of communes and serve 
food every Sunday in Griffith Park, the central get-together spot in Los Angeles. 
Call them at HO 9-5184 or 938-9141 for information and also to offer your help. 

Free vegetarian lunch can be found at the W. Hollywood Presbyterian Church at 
Sunset and Martel (874-1816). For supper, try the Midnite Mission, 396 S. Los 
Angeles Street; God Squas, 1412 N. Crescent Heights Blvd. (near Sunset), and 
His Place, Sunset and La Cienega. 

The Half-Price Bakery at Third and Hill St. gives away free bakery goods late at 
night and you can always bum a meal in any Clifton's Cafeteria with a good story. 

The Watts Trojan House is a free store that provides not only food, both clothing 
and a variety of other items and service. They are located at 1822 E. 103rd St. 
The County Welfare Department at 2707 S. Grand (near Adams Street) has a 
liberal food stamp program (746-0522). 

MEDICAL CARE 

• The Free Clinic at 115 N. Fairfax Ave. (938-9141) is very popular and 
provides a number of services at various hours such as: 
o Job Co-ops-Monday thru Friday, 10:00-4:00 PM. 
o Medical-Monday thru Friday, 5:30-10:00 PM. Saturday 12:30-5:00 
PM. 

o Dental-Monday thru Thursday, 7-10 PM. 

o Counseling-Psychiatric, Monday thru Friday, 6-10 PM. 

o Legal Monday thru Friday, 7-10 PM 



o Draft-Monday thru Thursday, 7:30-10:00 PM. 

o Pregnancy and Abortion-Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, 7:30. 

Saturday 1:30 PM 
o Birth Control-Monday thru Friday, 6-7 PM. Saturday 2-3 PM. 

• The Foothill Clinic, 547 E. Union in Pasadena (795-8088) offers similar 
services free of charge. Call them for a schedule of hours. Venereal 
Diseases are treated in the evenings at a clinic maintained by the 
Committee to Eradicate Syphillis. They are found at 5205 Melrose Ave., 
Hollywood (870-2524). 

• In Venice use the free Youth Clinic at 905 Venice Blvd. (near Lincoln). The 
services are varied and they are only open evenings. Call 399-7743 and 
they'll help you. 

• For specialized problems try: 

o Drugs-Narcotics Anonymous (463-3123) 

o Abortion-The Woman's Center, 1027 S. Crenshaw (near Olympic 

Blvd.) Wednesdays at 7:30 PM. 
o Mental-Central City Community Mental Health Center, 4272 S. 

Broadway (232-2441) 
o Suicide Prevention Center, 2521 W. Pico (381 -5111) 

• District Health Centers provide many free services. For exact information, 
call the center or write to: 

o County of Los Angeles Health Department, Public Health Education 
Division, 220 N. Broadway, Los Angeles, California 90012. Ask for 
a list and information about their health services. 

- EAST LOS ANGELES-670 S. Ferris Ave. 261 -31 91 . 

- SUBCENTER-MARAVILLA - 915 N. Bonnie Beach PI. 264- 
6910. 

- HOLLYWOOD-WILSHIRE-5202 Melrose Ave. 464-0121. 

- SUBCENTER-WEST HOLLYWOOD-621 N. San Vincente 
Blvd. 652-3090. 

- NORTH HOLLYWOOD-5300 Tujunga Ave. 766-3981 . 

- SUBCENTERS-PACOIMA-13300 Van Nuys Blvd. 899- 
0231. 

■ TUJUNGA-7747 Foothill Blvd. 352-1417. 

■ SOUTH-1 522 E. 1 02 St. 564-6801 

- SUBCENTER-FLORENCE-Firestone-801 9 Compton Ave 
583-6241. 

■ SOUTHEAST - 4920 Avalon Blvd. 231-2161. 

■ SOUTHWEST - 3834 S.Western Ave. 731-8541 . 

LEGAL AID 

. The Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles at 106 3rd St. (628-9126) 

provides help in civil matters. 
. The ACLU of Southern California is located at 323 W. Fifth St. (MA 6- 

5156). 



DRAFT COUNSELING 



. AFSC-980 N. Fair Oaks, Pasadena 91 103 (791-1978) 
. Black Community Draft Assistance-7228 S. Broadway, LA 90003 (778- 
0710) 

. Catholic Peace Assn.-91 1 Malcolm Ave., Westwood 90024 (474-2683) 

. Counterdraft-PO Box 74881 , LA 90004 

. East LA Peace Center-409 N. Soto, LA 90033 (261-2047) 

• Episcopal Draft Counseling Center-514 W. Adams Blvd., LA 90004 (748- 
4662) 

. Fellowship for Reconciliation 4356 1 / 2 Melrose, LA 90029 (666-0145) 

. First Unitarian Church-2936 W. Eighth St., LA 90005 (389-1356) 

. Free Clinic-115 N. Fairfax, LA 90036 (938-9141) 

. L.A. Comm. for Defense of Bill of Rights-(MA 5-21 69) 

. L.A. Draft Help-1018 S. Hill St., LA (Rl 7-5461) 

. Myra House-191 N. Sunkist, West Covina (338-9636) 

. Northeast Peace Center-5682 York Blvd., LA 90042 (257-2004) 

• Peace House-724 Morengo, Pasadena 91 103 (449-8228) 
. Resistance-507 N. Hoover, LA 90004 

. The Resistance-1 1317 Santa Monica Blvd., Westwood 90024 (478-2374) 

• SFVSC-Student Service Center, Admissions and Records Office, San 
Fernando Valley State College, Northridge (349-1200, ext. 1181) 

. UCLA Draft Counseling Center-UCLA Law School, 405 Hilgard Ave., LA 
90024 (746-6092) 

• USC Counseling Center-Gould Law School, University Park, Student 
Union Bldg., Rm. 217 (746-6092) 

. Valley Peace Center-7105 Hayvenhurst, Van Nuys 91406 (787-6925). 

Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. 
. Venice Draft Info Center-73 Market St., Venice 90291 (399-5812) 
. War Resisters League-1046 N. Sweetzer, LA 90069 (654-4491) 
. Westside Jewish Community Center-5870 W. Olympic Blvd., LA 90046 

(938-2531) 

. Women Strike for Peace-5899 W. Pico Blvd., LA 90019 (937-0236) 
PLAY 
Beaches 

Los Angeles has 14 miles of beaches extending from north of Pacific Palisades 
to Cabrillo Beach in San Pedro. 

Will Rogers Beach State Park, 15100 Pacific Coast Highway, Pacific Palisades, 
extends north three miles from the Santa Monica city limits to a point near 
Topanga Canyon. This beach has a large, popular surfing area. 



Venice Beach, 2100 Ocean Front Walk, Venice, extends from the Santa Monica 
city limits south to Marina Del Rey. Six acres have been developed into a park 
with picnic areas, shuffleboard courts and the Venice Beach Pavilion. The huge 
Venice Fishing Pier is located here, and there is an area for surfing. 

Isidore B. Dockweiler Beach State Park, 11401 Vista del Mar Ave. extends from 
Marina del Ray, south of the city of El Segundo. This beach has 700 fire pits and 
a surfing area. 

Cabrillo Beach, 3720 Stephen White Drive, San Pedro, located at the northern 
end of Los Angeles Harbor, has picnic areas, fire pits and a section for surfing. 

Royal Palms Beach, 1799 Paseo del Mar is equipped with picnic areas and fire 
pits. 

Parks 

Griffith Park is the largest park and the favorite gathering spot of the local hip 
community. It's next to the Ventura and State Freeways. 

Arroyo Seco Park is located along the Arroyo Seco and has picnic, recreational 
and bowling-on-the-green facilities. You'll also find the Los Angeles Zoo at 5333 
Zoo Drive in the park. 

Brand Park and Memory Garden opposite the old Mission San Fernando is a real 
strange place to go. 

Echo Park has the largest artificial lake in Los Angeles. Fishing programs for kids 
are conducted each summer and electric boats are available for rent. 

Hancock Park, located on Wilshire Blvd, between Odgen and Curson, has the 
LaBrea Tar Pits with prehistoric animal and plant fossils all over the place. 

The Exposition Park Rose Garden on Exposition Blvd. is a seven-acre sunken 
rose garden that smells great. 

Founded by Hubert Eaton as "the first step up to heaven," Forest Lawn Memorial 
Park, overlooking beautiful downtown Glendale has to be the wildest spot 
around. It is pure L.A. with the largest collection of reproduced statuary in the 
world. Jean Harlow, Sabu, Clark Gable and other loved ones are tucked away 
here. You can turn on in front of the Jean Hersholt Memorial, fuck in the Aisle of 
Benevolence located in the Great Mausoleum, and trip out on a stereo sermon 
emanating from the giant Mystery of Life sculpture. Far-fucking out! 

Museums 



There are over fifty free museums in the greater Los Angeles area. We are listing 
those of special interest. 

California Museum of Science and Industry-Exposition Park, 749-0101. 

Hollywood Wax Museum-6767 Hollywood Blvd. (near Grauman's Chinese 
Theater). 

Los Angeles County Museum of Art-5905 Wilshire Blvd. in Hancock Park, 937- 
2590. 

Music 

Every Sunday there are free music concerts in Griffith Park. Movies 

U.C.L.A. has a free experimental film series every year. Call them at 825-4321 
for a schedule. 

INFORMATION 

The Switchboard in Los Angeles has a 24-hour-a-day service called the Hot Line. 
It's located at 4650 Sunset Blvd. (663-1015). Call them for the latest in what's 
going down in the area. The L.A. Free Press at 7813 Beverly Blvd. 937-1970, is 
always a good source of information. The Black Panther Party Headquarters can 
be found at 41 1 5 S. Central Ave., 235-41 27, or at 981 8 Anzac, in Watts, 567- 
8027. The Traveler's Aid Society has offices in the Greyhound Bus Terminal and 
International Airport. They provide all kinds of services and information to lost 
souls or visitors. Generally 

FREEBIES 

Clothes 

The following spots offer clothes,furniture and other household items at low 
prices: 

Goodwill lndustries-235 So. Broadway 228-1748; 5208 Whittier 264-1638 

St. Vincent de Paul Society-727 N. Broadway 627-8147; 210 San Fernando Rd. 
221-6151 

The Volunteers of America maintain a number of thrift stores throughout the 
area. Try 8609 S. Broadway or call 750-9251 for the store near you. 



The Salvation Army also has a chain of stores. The main store is at 801 E. 7th 
St. 620-1270. They can help you there or let you know where you can shop in 
your area. 

Money 

You can sell a pint of blood for $10.00 at the Red Cross Blood Bank, 1200 S. 
Vermont (384-5261). 

Pets 

All sorts of free pets are available at the ASPCA, 5026, W. Jefferson (731-2491). 
Identification 

Los Angeles has a curfew law but you can get a suitable I.D. with photo for $3.50 
at Twelfth and Hill Streets. 



fuck san francisco 



HOUSING 

The nights are chilly in San Francisco but there are places that offer a free night's 
lodging. To avoid overcrowding they tend to employ a ticket system. By showing 
up in the late afternoon, you are generally assured a place to stay that night. The 
following places work it this way: 

• Brother Juniper's lnn-1736 Haight, tickets on a first-come, first-serve 
basis. 

• Holy Order of Man-937 Fillmore, no tickets. 

• Hospitality House-148 Leavenworth, for people under 18, generally filled. 

• Pinehurst Emergency Lodge-2685 30th Ave., for unwed mothers and 
women with children. 

. St. Mary's Church-660 California, tickets at 6:00 PM. 
. St. Patrick's Church-756 Mission, tickets at 6:00 PM 

• St. Vincent De Paul-235 Minna, tickets at 4:00 PM for single men only. 

• Salvation Army Harbor Light— 290 Fourth St., no tickets. 

Traveler's Aid, 38 Mason, 771-0880, will assist in finding temporary shelter. 
Young runaways will find it cool to try All Saint's Church, 1350 Walker (863-9718) 
for both room and board. Also Huckleberry's for Runaways, 1347 7th Ave. (731- 
3921) will provide these and other services such as counseling. 

If you're going to settle for a while in San Francisco, you might have difficulty 
finding an apartment to rent. Try the Federal Housing Information Center, 100 
California (556-5900). They maintain a free listing. 

The Community Design Center, 215 Haight (863-3718) provides free advice on 
architectural and design of pads inside and out once you locate a place, 
speaking, you can find a Traveler's Aid Station in every place that large numbers 
of travelers can be found. 





r 




FREEDOM'S JUST ANOTHBfR WORD 
FOR NOTHIN 1 LEFT TO LOSE 

1 MEAN NOTH1J^^|tSy IF IT AIN'T FREE 



JANIS JOPLIN 



PDF by Zen 